Whitepaper v1.0
Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.
15 November 2018

FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY
Information in this whitepaper does not constitute as an offer or solicitation to sell shares or securities in Ecomi Technology​PTE. Ltd.

Contents
Introduction
ECOMI Collect Overview
Secure Wallet Overview
The Metcalfe Effect

4
4
5
5

Why Blockchain
Non Fungible Token (NFT)
OMI Tokens
Scarcity
Counterfeit Protection
Peer-to-Peer Transfer

6
6
6
7
7
7

ECOMI Collect
Overview
Technology
Onboarding
Token
Pricing
Store
Secondary Marketplace
Digital Collectibles
Master Collector Program
Wallet
Collect Digital Hardware Wallet
Augmented Reality
Showroom
Scene Creator
Virtual Goods
Gamification
Social Wall (Show ‘n’ Tell)

7
8
8
9
9
10
10
10
11
11
12
12
13
13
14
14
15
15

Secure Wallet
Overview
Secure Wallet Components
Secure Wallet Main Features
Loss, Backup and Restoration

16
16
16
17
18

OMI Token

19

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Purchasing Tokens
Token Metrics
Use of Funds
Token Lockup Periods

19
19
20
20

Roadmap

21

Team
Key Members
Board & Advisors

22
22
23

Risks And Disclaimers

26

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Introduction
ECOMI is a Singapore registered business, operated and supported by ORBIS Blockchain
Technology Ltd. ORBIS is a registered company in New Zealand with offices in Auckland, New York,
Taipei and Shanghai.
ECOMI’s aim is to create the world’s best platform to purchase, protect and collect premium
licensed digital collectibles using Distributed Ledger Technology. ECOMI consists of two elements,
the ECOMI Collect ecosystem and the ECOMI Secure Storage Wallet.

ECOMI Collect Overview
ECOMI Collect is an application that allows users to buy, sell and trade premium licensed, digital
collectibles and other related virtual goods.
Through the ECOMI Collect app, users can browse a multitude of different brands and categories
to view and purchase digital collectibles, becoming the official owner.
Users can display their digital collectibles in their personal showroom and create custom scenes
with their digital collectibles and props. Within a social feed users can share their digital
collectibles, showrooms and scenes with the ECOMI Collect community, who can comment and
show appreciation.
The Augmented Reality feature lets users interact with their digital collectibles in the real-world
and even show them on social media. Eventually through ECOMI’s in-app gameplay, collectibles
will be able to interact with each other.
Within the app, users can connect to a secondary marketplace, where they will be able to buy, sell
and trade to other members of the community.
All transactions within ECOMI Collect are carried out utilising the OMI token, which is used to
purchase the digital collectibles and via staking, open access to premium features.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Secure Wallet Overview
The Secure Wallet is a wireless, credit card-sized, cryptocurrency
cold storage, hardware wallet.
The Secure Wallet never directly connects to the internet, keeping
your digital assets safe from malware and/or person’s with
malicious intent.
Employing CC EAL5+ security standards, the Secure Wallet offers an
incredibly high level of protection of your private keys, whilst
maintaining ultra portability. To put this in perspective, EAL5 is what
the majority of banks use.
Users interact with the Secure Wallet using the free companion app (available on iOS and
Android), which allows the user to carry out wallet functions such as sending and receiving
cryptocurrencies.

The Metcalfe Effect
As ECOMI Collect is a platform targeting the mass market, Metcalfe's law (which states the value of
a network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system) will play
a role in the growth of the user base.

^ Metcalfe’s law in action - Two telephones can make only one connection, five can make 10 connections,
and 12 can make 66 connections and so on.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

There are numerous positives associated with a growth of the ECOMI Collect user base, such as:
●

Increase in the scarcity of ECOMI digital collectibles (driving value)

●

Increased liquidity of the OMI token

●

Increase in the number of staked OMI tokens

●

Increased activity in the secondary market

●

Increased social activity across the ECOMI Collect app

●

Increased uptake of new (digital collectible) releases.

Why Blockchain
ECOMI Collect employs Blockchain / Distributed Ledger Technology in a number of ways to make
the ECOMI Collect experience possible.

Non Fungible Token (NFT)
The digital collectibles offered through ECOMI Collect are NFTs. The NFT standard allows for
verifiable digital scarcity with a proven authenticity and an immutable proof of ownership. NFT’s
allow for more detailed attributes to be included, such as rich metadata about the asset and these
authenticated details allow owners to be confident about the NFT’s authenticity and provenance.
ECOMI Collect will use the GO721 standard.

OMI Tokens
In order to facilitate the purchase and trade of digital collectibles, ECOMI Collect utilises the OMI
token. There will only be 750 Billion OMI tokens minted and these are purchased during the ICO,
through the ECOMI Collect app, or on an exchange.
The OMI tokens will be GO20 standard whereas the digital collectibles are GO721 (NFTs). When a
purchase of a collectible is made, the OMI tokens will be exchanged for the NFT. The NFT will be
sent to the users Ecomi Collect app and become rightfully theirs, whilst the OMI tokens used for
the purchase are discarded to a locked address.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Scarcity
ECOMI Collect digital collectibles are released in a limited number of batches, called ‘Series’. A
Series may, for example, have ten thousand digital collectibles and within this Series the digital
collectibles are divided across five rarity categories, ranging from ‘Common’, (representing 62% of
the total) through to ‘Secret-Rare’ (representing 1%). The Blockchain and NFT standard is used to
generate these limited number of digital assets.

Counterfeit Protection
A key advantage of using the Blockchain for digital collectibles is that each collectible is a uniquely
generated asset that cannot be duplicated. Each digital collectible is recorded in the Blockchain
and ties ownership directly to the verified owner.

Peer-to-Peer Transfer
To facilitate effortless buying, selling and trading of digital collectibles amongst users within the
app, ECOMI Collect leverages blockchain for the trustless transfer of digital assets between users.
When a transfer happens, ownership is immediately transferred to the new owner and the
previous owner will no longer have access to the digital collectible.

ECOMI Collect
Collectables have existed throughout human history and today they come in many forms, such as
trading cards, figurines, comics and toys. Digital collectables have shown extreme promise to date
and are on track to be the next generation of collect-o-mania. Currently the virtual goods market is
valued at $80 Billion annually and is expected to grow to $100 Billion within the next 2 - 3 years.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Overview
ECOMI Collect is a cross-platform (mobile, desktop, web) application used for the delivery and
storage of digital collectible content. It is a marketplace where users can buy, swap, sell and store
digital assets in the form of digital collectible NFTs. The authenticity, scarcity and ownership of
digital collectibles are managed using Distributed Ledger Technology.

Technology
Blockchain Protocol and Contract Standards
Due to the throughput and congestion issues that currently plague the Ethereum network, ECOMI
Collect will be deploying the OMI token and the digital collectible NFT contracts on the GoChain
network.
Currently the GoChain network successfully performs 1,300 transactions per second and are on
track to perform at 13,000 transactions per second. This vs Ethereum’s 13 transactions per second
make it an ideal choice for both short and long term DAPP viability. Additionally, as a fork of the
Ethereum protocol, GoChain is 100% compatible with Ethereum smart contracts, which will allow
ECOMI to leverage existing GO20 and GO721 token standard implementations. To achieve long
term stability and compatibility, the ECOMI NFT smart contract will be compatible with the ERC721
token standard.

Minting and Generation
When new digital collectibles are created they are done so by minting a new NFT in our blockchain
contract. Each NFT is provided with an associated URI which links that NFT to a set of metadata
which includes the collectible name, licensor, brand, series and links to the NFT’s various digital
assets (such as clothing, props, etc).
ECOMI will host the publicly accessible JSON API containing the metadata for each NFT’s URI.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Digital Exchange Platform and NFT Ownership
After the minting of each NFT, the ownership is sent to an address assigned to ECOMI for security
and management on behalf of the owner. The ECOMI Collect platform operates as a hybrid model
whereby ECOMI maintains ownership of all collectibles within the system, as is a common practice
among digital exchange platforms. The ECOMI Collect platform will maintain centralized
ownership records as users buy, sell and trade NFTs.
Additionally, all transactions in our system require signing authorization from either the user’s app
or their Collect Digital Hardware Wallet. This hybrid approach allows ECOMI to provide users with
a streamlined experience within the ECOMI Collect app, while still leveraging the power of
Distributed Ledger Technology for ECOMI digital collectibles.

Onboarding
Registration is required to use and access the ECOMI Collect app. To facilitate simple onboarding,
ECOMI Collect will offer Single Sign On Services with an option to sign up manually via email.
During onboarding, the user will be prompted to indicate their preferences towards specific
brands and interests, which is used as a basis for personalised content.

Token
The underlying economy of ECOMI Collect is the OMI Token. The token is needed for two reasons.
Firstly, the sale and purchase of digital collectibles and secondly, access to extra features and
benefits within the app, such as the ’Master Collector Program’.
When a purchase is made using OMI tokens, the tokens involved in the transaction are exchanged
for the digital collectible and then expire. After a successful purchase the invalid OMI tokens are
sent to an inaccessible smart contract where they reside permanently.
ECOMI Collect users can acquire OMI Tokens using a credit or debit card, or where applicable, via
an in-app purchase. When via in-app purchases, the payment will seamlessly purchase an amount
of OMI tokens (determined by the user) and once the OMIs are acquired they are used to
purchase the digital collectible. This process happens entirely in the background.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Pricing
Digital collectible pricing within the ECOMI Collect app will be displayed in both fiat and OMI
tokens. As ECOMI Collect targets the mass market, representing payment in familiar terms (fiat) is
key for adoption.
It is likely that over the natural progression of time the OMI token value will fluctuate based on
supply and demand. By pricing digital collectibles in fiat, ECOMI can ensure any fluctuations in the
OMI token value will not affect the collectible price. For example, at OMI token issuance the value
of 1 OMI = 1 Sat (0.00000001 BTC), a USD $9 digital collectable would be worth approximately
138,831 OMI tokens (current BTC USD $6,483.39). If the OMI token value was to double to 1 OMI =
2 Sats, a US$9 digital collectable would be worth 69,415 OMI tokens.
ECOMI Collect users will not be affected by these fluctuations in the OMI token value as the price
will have always remained a consistent dollar value.

Store
From the Store section of the ECOMI Collect app users can browse and purchase new and
premium licensed, digital collectibles. Within the store, the digital collectables are organized into
categories and brands, with search and filter tools allowing users to easily find the content they
seek.
Each user has an intelligent store data profile which offers personalised content suggestions
based on what they have viewed, purchased or interacted with. Users can purchase digital
collectibles from the store using fiat or OMI. When the purchase is completed the digital collectible
is removed from the store and ownership is transferred to the purchaser.

Secondary Marketplace
In the ECOMI Collect secondary marketplace users can connect, buy, sell, trade and put to auction
their ECOMI digital collectibles. When selling, the owner can choose how they want to sell the

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

digital collectible - either sell at a fixed price or via a seven-day auction, which requires a reserve
(set by the seller) to be met, in order to complete the auction.
Items in the marketplace can be added to the users personal watchlist so the activity can be
monitored. Users can can also make offers to swap or trade any item in the marketplace.

Digital Collectibles
Users can choose to inspect any individual collectible, whether in the store or secondary
marketplace and view the information associated with it. This information can include the
ownership history (previous owners usernames, with no identifiable information), purchase
history, value over time, edition number, licensor and associated visual assets. Users can ‘like’ and
comment on any digital collectible as well as share it in-app and on major social channels.

Master Collector Program
The Master Collector Program allows ECOMI Collect users to gain access to extra features and
benefits such as; early access to digital collectible releases, limited edition collectibles, bonus OMI
tokens and more.
To become a Master Collector, the user needs to hold (stake) OMI tokens in a special section of
their in-app wallet called The Powerchest.
New users will start at ‘level 1’ Master Collector when they register. A user’s Master Collector level
is based on a number of factors and variables including the amount of OMI tokens held in the
user’s wallet, purchase and sale history and in-app activity such as community votes and
interactions.
The primary actions a user can take to increase their Master Collector level are:
●

Paid: A user can accelerate their progress through the levels, unlocking further features
and benefits by purchasing and staking more OMI tokens.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

●

Unpaid: For users who choose not to accelerate financially, they can earn OMI tokens from
in-app activity and then stake these earned tokens.

Wallet
Every ECOMI Collect user has an in-app wallet that is generated during the account set up. The
wallet can be accessed from within the ECOMI Collect app and holds the users OMI tokens and the
digital collectibles they own.
From within the wallet users can see their OMI balance, staked token balance, purchase more OMI
tokens and view their transaction history. They can also see the associated digital hardware wallet
(see below) if one has been paired.

Collect Digital Hardware Wallet
The Collect Digital Hardware Wallet offers ECOMI Collect users an offline way to securely store
their OMI tokens and digital collectibles. ECOMI Collect users can choose to authorize their digital
collectibles and OMI token purchases and transfers using the Collect Digital Hardware Wallet,
instead of the the in-app wallet. The Collect Digital Hardware Wallet will be made available
internationally through retail outlets at a price point of approximately US$29,99.
Based on the Secure Wallet technology (see Secure Wallet p.10), the Collect Digital Hardware
Wallet is the size of a credit card and wirelessly connects to the ECOMI Collect app.
Once connected and paired, users can utilize their Collect Digital Hardware Wallet to authorize the
transfers of their digital collectibles and assets.
When transferring collectibles or OMI token ownership, the user must physically approve this
transaction by pressing the button on the Collect Digital Hardware Wallet. If the wallet happens to
get lost, the user can recover their digital collectibles and OMI tokens using the seed numbers
generated during the setup.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Augmented Reality
A key feature of the ECOMI Collect product suite is the Augmented Reality (AR) tools. Using this
technology, ECOMI Collect allows users to bring their ECOMI digital collectibles out of the phone
and project them into the real world, when viewed through the ECOMI Collect mobile app.
When viewing an ECOMI Collect digital collectible in AR, the digital collectible is like a real world
object - the user can move around it and view it from all angles. Using the AR, ECOMI Collect users
can interact with their collectibles such as move them around the real world environment or
engage in ECOMI game experiences.
In addition, users can customise their collectibles and decorate the surrounding area with props
and accessories, then view (and share) these creations in AR also.
Users will have the ability to scale the AR content to match their environment, whether that be a
small size on a table top, or scaled up to fill an open outdoor area.
ECOMI Collect AR is placed into the real world in one of the following ways - on a flat surface (AR
technology will locate and detect a flat surface and then place the AR elements on top), floating in
space, on a reference point, or based on a geolocation.

Showroom
Every ECOMI Collect user has their own personal Showroom - a place where they can show off
their most prized digital collectibles. A user can customise their Showroom by choosing which
digital collectibles to display, selecting a layout and adding background images. Showrooms can
be made private or public. If public, the Showroom can be viewed by other users within the ECOMI
Collect app, as well as shared across major social platforms. Other users can show their
appreciation for others Showrooms by ‘liking’ and leaving comments.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Scene Creator
ECOMI Collect allows users to get creative and build their own unique Scenes which consist of
digital collectibles, props, accessories and background images to create visually rich 3D
environments.
An easy-to-use 3D visual editor allows users to drop items into the 3D Scene and using a range of
tools, move, rotate or scale items. The user can also adjust the scene lighting and the camera view
angle to capture the perfect frame.
When a Scene is completed, the user can share their Scene/s on the ECOMI Collect Social Wall and
across major social media platforms.
All Scenes can be viewed and experienced using the ECOMI Collect AR features. The Scene Creator
is a custom-built feature leveraging industry standard tools, such as Unity and integrated into the
ECOMI Collect app.

Virtual Goods
As well as digital collectibles, virtual goods can also be added to the Scenes for greater
customisation. Virtual goods are any digital asset that is not a digital collectible, for example a hat,
tree, prop, animation sequence, background image, etc.
Virtual Goods are available both free and purchased (with OMIs or fiat) and accessed from the
Virtual Goods section of the Store and within the Scene Creator.
Virtual goods are organized into categories and consist of generic content, which can be used in
any Scene and licensed content, that is paired with specific digital collectibles or brands. All virtual
goods are NFTs minted by ECOMI and will be released in both high quantities and scarce, limited
numbers.
Assets in the Virtual Goods Store will be provided initially by ECOMI and partners and in future

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

releases ECOMI aims to allow user generated content to be contributed and sold within the Virtual
Goods Store also.

Gamification
ECOMI Collect in-app gaming allows user to interact and play with the digital collectibles they own,
creating a further level of engagement. A range of single and multiplayer game experiences can be
played within ECOMI Collect using the Augmented Reality features.
ECOMI Collect users gain access to game experiences based on the collectibles they own, for
example, owning a digital collectible can grant access to play AR games, which can also be played
multiplayer against other ECOMI Collect users who own digital collectibles. As users play through
the ECOMI game experiences they can earn OMI Tokens, experience points (Master Collector) and
find ranges of common to secret-rare digital collectibles and virtual goods.
ECOMI aims to produce game content as bite-sized playable adventures which are released on a
regular basis, both as generic to ECOMI and in partnership with licensors.

Social Wall (Show ‘n’ Tell)
Within the ECOMI Collect app, a social section called Show ‘n’ Tell allows the community to connect
and interact with other ECOMI Collect members.
On the Social Wall, users can share their digital collectibles, Scenes or items they are selling in the
marketplace. The Social Wall will also display personalised content to the user’s taste and interest.
Users can choose to follow another ECOMI Collect user (from the users Showroom page) and will
see this content any time that user shares something new.
Show ‘n’ Tell offers Ecomi Collect users a number of ways to show their appreciation for content
posted (digital collectibles and scenes) by other member such as liking, commenting, sharing and
also giving a ‘tip’ in OMI tokens.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Secure Wallet
Overview
The Secure Wallet is a wireless, credit card-sized, hardware cold storage device that protects
private keys. The Secure Wallet is designed to be impenetrable to malicious cyber-attacks as it
never connects directly to the internet or insecurely via an online device.
The Secure Wallet is securely paired using an encrypted Bluetooth connection to the host device
(iOS or Android smartphone). Removing the need for a wired connection reduces the likelihood of
being compromised, whilst allowing for the highest degree of portability.
On the Secure Wallet device itself, the user can view balances and feedback information on the
e-paper display. Further interactions with the Secure Wallet are carried out via the ECOMI Secure
Wallet App. Using the Secure Wallet App, users can:

●

Maintain full control over the transfer of private keys in and out of the Secure Wallet

●

Securely store and manage Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Ripple, Litecoin (more coming)

●

See all cryptocurrency balances

●

Send and receive all supported cryptocurrencies

●

View transaction history

●

Create up to five individual accounts per cryptocurrency

Secure Wallet Components
1. Hardware Secure Element
2. E-Paper Display
3. Bluetooth connector
4. Power / Confirmation Button
5. Integrated Circuitry
6. Rechargeable Battery
7. Charging connectors

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

8. LED Charging Indicator

Secure Wallet Main Features
●

Top-of-the-line security

●

True cold wallet that never connects directly to the internet

●

Full loss recovery and restoration

●

Everyday convenience

●

Physical transaction confirmation

●

Supports Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Litecoin, Bitcoin Cash (more coming)

●

No strings and no fees (other than standard blockchain fees)

●

Long life rechargeable lithium battery

●

Waterproof and a bend capability of 15 degrees

●

Environmentally friendly components

Market Comparison:
Secure Wallet

Trezor

Ledger Nano

Keep Key

$99

$115

$105

$129.00

Currency Support

Bitcoin, Ethereum,
Litecoin, Bitcoin Cash
and Ripple. Supported
soon on the Secure
Wallet is full ERC20
support, GoChain, OMI,
BNB

Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dash,
Zcash, Bitcoin Cash,
Bitcoin Gold, Ethereum
(+ all ERC-20 tokens),
Ethereum Classic,
Expanse, UBIQ, NEM,
Namecoin, Dogecoin
and Bitcoin Testnet.

Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash,
Bitcoin Gold, Ethereum,
Ethereum Classic,
Litecoin, Dogecoin,
Zcash, XRP, Dash,
Stratis, Komodo, Ark,
Expanse, Ubiq, Vertcoin,
Viacoin, Neo,
Stealthcoin, Stellar,
Hcash, Digibyte, Qtum,
PivX

bitcoin, bitcoin cash,
ethereum, litecoin,
dogecoin, dash

Open Platform

Yes

Yes

No

No

Mobile App

Yes

No

Yes

No

Portable

Yes

No

No

No

Wireless

Yes

No

No

No

Bitcoin ATM Compatible

Yes

No

No

No

Price (USD)

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Loss, Backup and Restoration
Security and restoration of private keys is extremely important and the Secure Wallet has a very
robust restoration capability. If owners lose their Secure Wallet and / or their host device, their
private keys will remain protected. During the setup of the Secure Wallet, a Recovery Seed is
generated within the app, as outlined in the explanation above.
When the seed is generated, the user should write this in the Recovery Card supplied with the
Secure Wallet and store it in a safe place. In the event that the Secure Wallet is lost or stolen, the
user can purchase a replacement Secure Wallet, pair it with the host device, and enter the
Recovery Seed to restore their private keys. In the future, ECOMI plans to make use of biometric
technologies to make the process simpler and more secure.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

OMI Token
Purchasing Tokens
As ECOMI Collect is targeted to the mass market, it is of the utmost importance the onboarding
and purchasing of OMI tokens remains a task that can be easily carried out by consumers with
zero knowledge or understanding of the blockchain and cryptocurrencies. To facilitate this, users
will acquire OMI tokens using credit or debit cards, or in-app purchases.
When a purchase is made using OMI tokens, the tokens involved in the transaction are exchanged
for the digital collectible and then expire. After a successful purchase the invalid OMI tokens are
sent to an inaccessible smart contract where they reside permanently.

Token Metrics
Total Supply

750,000,000,000 OMI

Tokens Available for Sale

450,000,000,000 OMI

Token Price

0.00000001 (1 Satoshi)

ICO (Public and Private Sale)

20% | 150,000,000,000 OMI

In App Purchases

40% | 300,000,000,000 OMI

Business Development

20% | 150,000,000,000 OMI

Team, Advisors, Board Members

20% | 150,000,000,000 OMI

Ticker Symbol
Token Type
Hardcap

OMI
GO20 / GO721
1,500 BTC

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Use of Funds
Licensing Acquisition
Product Development

55%
22.5%

Marketing Expenses

15%

Business Operation

5%

Legal Expenses

2.5%

Token Lockup Periods
ICO (Public/Private Sale)

0 months

In App Purchases

0 months

ECOMI Team / Board / Advisors
ECOMI Founders

12 month cliff
24 month cliff, then vested at 25% quarterly

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Roadmap
●

2018:
○

●

Q4:
■

Whitepaper

■

Initial Coin Offering

■

15 Brands Secured

■

ECOMI Collect Beta App

■

ECOMI Collect v1 Public Release

■

ECOMI Public In-App Sale commences

■

Augmented Reality Scene Creator Implementation

■

Ecomi Collect Digital Hardware Wallet distribution

■

ECOMI Collect v2 Release

■

Addition of Virtual Goods library for greater customisations

■

Roll out of in-app gamification

■

3rd Party Integrations

2019:
○
○

○

○

Q1:
Q2:

Q3

Q4

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Team
Key Members
David Yu - CEO, Founder
David is an Auckland-based company director and was a founder of Games R Us Ltd at the age of
17. David has 21 years experience in the retail industry and working with intellectual property,
transforming licenses into brands. David’s business extended into global projects with Retail
Management Group Ltd, launching brands over several continents setting up international offices
and distribution centres for electronics, skincare, food and beverage products. Both businesses
have earned him Finalist in the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in 2004 and 2008, the
2016 Australia New Zealand Chamber of Commerce award and Taipei Young Entrepreneur of the
year. Equally as prestigious, David’s company was ranked 12th in 2014 “Deloitte Fast 50 growing
companies“.

Daniel Crothers - COO, Co-Founder
Dan has founded a variety of successful startups, including a web agency servicing international
clients such as Hasbro and The Red Cross. Dan’s previous successful exit was a US media company
he co-founded, which gained millions of social followers and an equal number of monthly
pageviews. Dan continues to hold interests in numerous businesses. He entered the
cryptocurrency space in early 2016 and quickly became passionate about the cryptocurrency and
blockchain revolution and has since then has been deeply involved with the crypto-world.

Alfred Kahn - Head of Licensing
As a licensing executive, Kahn has spent more than 30 years distributing and promoting iconic
brands such as Cabbage Patch Kids, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Yu- Gi-Oh! He is also
credited for the marketing and licensing programs for other iconic brands like Mario Bros., Zelda,
Donkey Kong, James Bond, WWF, Polly Pocket and more. The true highlight of Kahn’s career is that
he is the man responsible for bringing Pokemon to the world.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Mikel Duffy - CTO
Mikel has over 15 years of experience in leading technical teams to success. With a focus on
intellectual property, Mikel has used both AI and Blockchain to solve major problems. He has led
teams in the Blockchain Advisory department of KPMG, universities and AI firms, and has a keen
eye for innovation. In his spare time he has developed cryptocurrency exchanges, wallets, multiple
other DApps and has a doctorate in philosophy.

Joseph Janik - Head of Hardware Sales, Co-Founder
Joseph is an Australian entrepreneur who began his journey at a young age, starting his first
business at 18 years old. He later went on to become a leading account executive within
international corporations focused on the stock market, cloud technology, health and lifestyle
automation. Joseph now owns multiple successful businesses and has been involved in Blockchain
since 2016, where he became a very successful day trader, as well as spotting key opportunities in
crypto-space. Joseph is extremely talented at execution and has a strong passion for creative
innovation, marketing and online business.

Board & Advisors
Hongbo Xu - CEO InnoHub
Hongbo is a serial entrepreneur and has more than 25 years of experience in the TMT (technology,
media and telecom) industry with extensive experience in strategic planning, product
development, marketing and investments around the world in more than 8 countries. Previously
he served as senior architect and principal consultant for Sun Microsystems and BEA.

Jonty Kelt - Founder, Fantail Ventures
Jonty is an investor in thirty early-stage companies out of his venture fund, Fantail Ventures and
works at Silicon Valley based data and analytics firm Palantir Technologies. Previously, Jonty
helped establish Macquarie Bank in New Zealand, co-founded a media business in China,
co-founded technology businesses in the UK and USA and worked for DoubleClick and Google.

Jeff Lander - Big Red Button Entertainment
Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Jeff is a game technology leader with a strong background in creating custom systems, engines,
and teams for game projects. Focused on high end PC and console titles with an emphasis on
character interaction and gameplay. Jeff is currently developing high quality character experiences
in room space VR on the Vive and Oculus as well as AR technology and real-world gaming on
mobile.

Kam Punia - Digital Gaming Specialist
Kam Punia was pivotal in building Konami Northern Europe's Trading Card Game (TCG) division
helping is Yugioh become one of the most popular TCG's in several territories in both the hobby
and mass market. Kam has been instrumental in forging relationships with games, creative and
event led industries to build strong brand partnerships internationally.

Paul Adams - CEO EverEdge Global
Since embarking upon his technology commercialization career in the 1990s, Paul has worked with
some of the world’s leading technology companies. He is renowned for his extensive
understanding of intellectual property strategy as well as being a keen advocate for the concept
that intangible assets are fundamental to corporate performance.

James Lu - Integrated Circuitry & Biometrics
James has over 20 years of Integrated circuitry & biometrics experience. Having advised the likes
of Acer, Toshiba, Lenovo and Konica, he has a Masters in Science & Electrical Engineering (Digital
Signal Processing) and holds 17 related patents. He was the former Senior director of listed
company Pixart Imaging & EOSMEM Corporation.

Ward Stirrat - Technology Entrepreneur
Ward is a longtime entrepreneur & seasoned executive with a focus in the marketing &
communication sector for the past 25 years. Ward has owned & continues to operate several
companies ranging from small boutique communication & branding consultancies to larger sales
& marketing companies with 100+ staff in Vancouver & Toronto.

Tudor Clee - Legal Counsel / Education

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

Tudor Clee is a Barrister and Solicitor of the High Court of New Zealand. He has visited over 200
countries and territories to expand his knowledge of geo politics and social development. In 2012
he created the Touchable Earth Foundation, developer of the first app where kids teach kids about
the world, which has been awarded by the UN as the best program to promote intercultural
dialogue amongst children.

Risks And Disclaimers
PLEASE READ THIS PART “RISKS AND DISCLAIMERS” CAREFULLY. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO
THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER
PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S). By accessing the information set forth in this document or any part
hereof, you represent and warrant to ECOMI Technology Pte. Ltd. (“ECOMI”) that you
unconditionally and irrevocably accept and agree with the following:
RESTRICTED TERRITORIES AND DISTRIBUTION
It may not be lawful in certain jurisdictions for individuals, or certain categories of individuals in
other jurisdictions, to view this document. An individual who wishes to view this document must
first satisfy himself or herself that he or she is not subject to any local requirements that prohibits
or restricts him or her from doing so. In particular, unless otherwise determined by ECOMI
Technology Pte. Ltd. and permitted by the applicable law and regulations, it is not intended that
any information contained in this document should be sent, directly or indirectly, in or into,
countries where participating in Initial Coin Offerings are banned due to legal restrictions, and
countries sanctioned by the US, or countries considered as high risk and monitored by the
Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) (each, a “Restricted Territory”) and nor should it be accessed by
any individual who is a national citizen or resident of a Restricted Territory, including corporations,
partnerships, or other entities created or organised in any such jurisdiction, unless they are
exempted from the prohibition against participating in Initial Coin Offerings. ECOMI shall not be
responsible for individuals who access this document from territories whose laws prohibit such
access or where any part of the document may be illegal. Such individuals do so at their own risk.
The publication, distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper does not imply that the
applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with. This Whitepaper is not
an advertisement, nor is it intended to be used to call for an offer on behalf of ECOMI. Persons to

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

whom a copy of this Whitepaper has been distributed or disseminated, provided access to or who
otherwise have the Whitepaper in their possession shall not circulate it to any other persons,
reproduce or otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any information contained herein for any
purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to occur. This Whitepaper, any part thereof
and any copy thereof must not be taken or transmitted to any country where distribution or
dissemination of this Whitepaper is prohibited or restricted. No part of this Whitepaper is to be
reproduced, distributed or disseminated without including this part “RISKS AND DISCLAIMERS”.
NO AGREEMENT
No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment concerning the sale
and purchase of the OMI Tokens and no cryptocurrency, or other form of payment is to be
accepted on the basis of this Whitepaper. Any agreement in relation to any sale and purchase of
OMI Tokens (as referred to in this Whitepaper) is to be governed by only a separate document
setting out the terms and conditions (the “OMI Token Sales Terms”) of such agreement. In the
event of any inconsistencies between the OMI Token Sales Terms and this Whitepaper, the OMI
Token Sales Terms shall prevail.
NO ADVICE
This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any advice to sell, or any
solicitation of any offer by ECOMI to acquire any OMI Tokens nor shall it or any part of it nor the
fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any contract or
investment decision. You must conduct your own due diligence and ensure you comply with all
local laws regarding cryptocurrency, tax, securities and other regulations in your jurisdiction. We
encourage you to consult with the relevant professional advisors independently.
If any provision or part of any provision in this “RISKS AND DISCLAIMERS” part is or becomes
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, it shall be deemed modified to the minimum extent necessary to
make it valid, legal and enforceable. If such modification is not possible, the relevant provision or
part-provision shall be deemed deleted. Any modification to or deletion of a provision or part of
any provision under this “RISKS AND DISCLAIMERS” part shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of the rest of this “RISKS AND DISCLAIMERS” part.
NO OFFER OF SECURITIES OR REGISTRATION

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

This document is for information purposes only and does not constitute or form, and not intended
to be, an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, subscribe for, underwrite or purchase any
form of investment or securities or other financial instruments, nor shall it or any part of it form
the basis of, or be relied upon, in any way in connection with any contract or investment decision
relating to the same. It does not constitute a prospectus or offer document of any sort and is not
intended to constitute an offer of securities or a solicitation for investment in securities in any
jurisdiction. No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out
in this Whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory
requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of this
Whitepaper does not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been
complied with.
DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
In no event shall either ECOMI, or any of their respective current or former employees, officers,
directors, partners, trustees, representatives, agents, advisors, contractors, or volunteers be liable
for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or
otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data),
arising out of or in connection with:
(i)

any acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you;

(ii)

any failure by ECOMI, any of its affiliate companies or third party contractors or
licensors to deliver or realize all or any part of the project described in or envisaged in
this Whitepaper;

(iii)

any information contained in or omitted from this Whitepaper;

(iv)

your use or inability to use at any time the services or products or OMI Tokens offered
by ECOMI,

(v)

mistakes or errors in code, text, or images involved in the OMI Token sale or in this
Whitepaper; or

(vi)

any expectation, promise, representation or warranty arising (or purportedly arising)
from this Whitepaper;

(vii)

the purchase, use, sale, resale, redemption, or otherwise of the OMI Tokens; or

(viii)

the volatility in pricing of OMI tokens in any countries and/or on any exchange or
market (regulated, unregulated, primary, secondary or otherwise);

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

(ix)

any security risk or security breach or security threat or security attack or any theft or
loss of data including but not limited to hacker attacks, losses of password, losses of
private keys, or anything similar; and

(x)

your failure to properly secure any private key to a wallet containing OMI Tokens.

NO REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
All information is provided without any warranties of any kind and ECOMI, its employees, officers
and/or advisors do not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaim, any express or implied
representation, warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person, including
any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the truth, accuracy and completeness
of any of the information set out in this Whitepaper. This Whitepaper and the OMI Tokens are
provided on an “as is” basis and without any warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied.
Each of ECOMI, its employees, officers and/or professional advisors assumes no responsibility or
liability to you or any third party for the consequence of reliance on such information, errors or
omissions in such information or any action resulting therefrom. You assume all responsibility and
risk with respect to your use of the Whitepaper and purchasing of any amount of OMI Tokens and
their use.
CAUTIONARY NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
All statements contained in this Whitepaper, statements made in press releases or in any place
accessible by the public and oral statements that may be made by ECOMI or their respective
directors, executive officers or employees acting on behalf of ECOMI, that are not statements of
historical fact, constitute “forward looking statements”.

Some of these statements can be

identified by forward-looking terms such as “aim”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”,
“expect”, “if”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “possible”, “probable”, “project”, “should”, “target”, “will” or
“would”, or other similar terms. However, these terms are not the exclusive means of identifying
forward-looking statements.
All statements regarding ECOMI’s business strategies, financial position, plans and prospects and
the future prospects of the industry which ECOMI is in are forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements as to ECOMI’s revenue and
profitability, prospects, future plans, other expected industry trends and other matters discussed
in this Whitepaper regarding ECOMI are matters that are not historical facts, but only predictions.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other
factors that may cause the actual future results, performance or achievements of ECOMI to be
materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expected, expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to:
(a) the risk that ECOMI may be unable or execute or implement their respective business
strategies and future plans;
(b) risks and uncertainties associated with ECOMI and its businesses and operations, the OMI
Tokens, the OMI Initial Token Sale, and the Secure Wallet (each as referred to in the
Whitepaper).
(c) changes in the future capital needs of ECOMI and the availability of financing and capital to
fund such needs;
(d) changes in political, social, economic and stock or cryptocurrency market conditions, and the
regulatory environment in the countries in which ECOMI conducts its respective businesses
and operations;
(e) changes in interest rates and exchange rates of fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies;
(f) changes in the anticipated growth strategies and expected internal growth of ECOMI and/or
their respective affiliates;
(g) changes in the availability and fees payable to ECOMI in connection with their respective
businesses and operations;
(h) changes in the availability and salaries of employees who are required by ECOMI and to
operate their respective businesses and operations;
(i) changes in preferences of customers of ECOMI;
(j) changes in competitive conditions under which ECOMI operate, and the ability of ECOMI to
compete under such conditions; and
(k) war or acts of international or domestic terrorism, occurrences of catastrophic events, natural
disasters and acts of God that affect the businesses and/or operations of ECOMI, and other
factors beyond the control of ECOMI.
All forward-looking statements made by or attributable to ECOMI or persons acting on behalf of
ECOMI are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors. These forward-looking statements
are applicable only as of the date of this Whitepaper, and nothing contained in this Whitepaper is

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future performance
or policies of ECOMI, or in relation to the truth, accuracy and completeness of any of the
information set out in this paper. The actual results, performance or achievements of ECOMI may
differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Whilst ECOMI
intends to fulfil all the goals set out in this document, in case of unforeseen circumstances, the
goals may change or may not be achieved without any notice to you.
Neither ECOMI or any other person represents, warrants and/or undertakes that the actual future
results, performance or achievements of ECOMI will be as discussed in those forward-looking
statements. Further, ECOMI disclaim any responsibility to update any of those forward-looking
statements or publicly announce any revisions to those forward-looking statements to reflect
future developments, events or circumstances, even if new information becomes available or
other events occur in the future, except to the extent required by law.
THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND NO CONSENT OF OTHER PERSONS
This Whitepaper includes information obtained from various third party sources (“Third Party
Information”). None of the publishers of Third Party Information has consented to the inclusion of
Third Party Information in this Whitepaper and is therefore not liable for Third Party Information.
While ECOMI have taken reasonable actions to ensure that the information is extracted accurately
and in its proper context, ECOMI have not conducted any independent review of the information
extracted from third party sources, verified the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of such
information or ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein.
Consequently, neither ECOMI nor any of its respective directors, executive officers and employees
acting on their behalf makes any representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness
of such information and shall not be obliged to provide any updates on the same.
NO ADVICE
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be legal, business, financial or tax
advice regarding ECOMI, the OMI tokens, the OMI Initial Token Sale, and the Secure Wallet (each
as referred to in the Whitepaper). You should consult your own legal financial, tax or other
professional adviser regarding ECOMI and their respective businesses and operations, the OMI
tokens, the OMI Initial Token Sale and the Secure Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper).
You should be aware that you may be required to bear the financial risk of any purchase of OMI
tokens for an indefinite period. You must conduct your own due diligence and ensure you comply
with all local laws regarding cryptocurrency, tax, securities and other regulations in your

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

jurisdiction.
NO FURTHER INFORMATION OR UPDATE
No person has been or is authorized to give any information or representation not contained in
this Whitepaper in connection with ECOMI and its respective businesses and operations, the OMI
Tokens, the OMI Initial Token Sale, and the Secure Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper)
and, if given, such information or representation must not be relied upon as having been
authorized by or on behalf of ECOMI.
The OMI Initial Token Sale (as referred to in the Whitepaper) shall not, under any circumstances,
constitute a continuing representation or create any suggestion or implication that there has been
no change, or development reasonably likely to involve a material change in the affairs, conditions
and prospects of ECOMI or in any statement of fact or information contained in this Whitepaper
since the date hereof.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Prospective purchasers of OMI Tokens (as referred to in this Whitepaper) should carefully consider
and evaluate all risks and uncertainties associated with ECOMI, and their respective businesses
and operations, the OMI Tokens, the OMI Initial Token Sale and the Secure Wallet (each as
referred to in the Whitepaper), including all information set out in this Whitepaper prior to any
purchase of OMI tokens. If any of such risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, the
business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of ECOMI could be materially
and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all or part of the value of the OMI tokens.
The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens, including any digital currency, digital assets and
blockchain applications is unclear or unsettled in many jurisdictions. The publication and
dissemination of this document do not imply that any relevant laws, regulations and rules have
been complied with. No regulatory authority has examined or approved this document. Where
any relevant governmental authority makes changes to existing laws, regulations and/or rules, or
where financial institutions make certain commercial decisions, it may have a material adverse
effect and/or impair the ability of any relevant entity referred to in the document to function as
intended, or at all. There are risks involved in the technologies relating to the Ethereum
blockchain, and the OMI tokens, such as unforeseen bugs, security issues or disruptions. By way of

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

the above and other factors not within our control, the entire sum used to purchase the OMI
tokens may be lost.
ECOMI may contract with third parties to develop and license their products and/or technology for
use within the ECOMI Ecosystem. While ECOMI will take all commercially reasonable steps to
secure the necessary rights and licenses, there are risks and uncertainties associated with the
business and operations of such third party contractors that are beyond ECOMI’s control and they
may not deliver on the products and/or technology. There is also a risk that ECOMI does not
succeed in obtaining and/or renewing the necessary rights and licenses to such third party
products and/or technology mentioned in this Whitepaper. Such events may have a material
adverse effect on the function, deployment and use of the ECOMI Ecosystem as intended.
This Whitepaper does not identify, or claim to identify, all the risk factors connected with ECOMI
and its businesses and operations, the OMI Tokens, the OMI Initial Token Sale, and the Secure
Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper). The disclaimers set out above are not exhaustive.
A more comprehensive list will be set out in other documents that may be published by ECOMI
from time to time. You must make your own independent evaluation, after making such
investigations as you consider essential, of the merits of participating in the Token Sale and after
obtaining your own independent professional advice. To the fullest extent possible, ECOMI shall
not be liable for any responsibility, liability, claims, demands and/or damages (actual and
consequential) of every kind and nature, known and unknown (including, but not limited to, claims
of negligence), arising out of or related to any acceptance or reliance on the information set forth
in this document by you.
TERMS USED
To facilitate a better understanding of the OMI Tokens being offered for purchase by ECOMI, and
the businesses and operations of ECOMI, certain technical terms and abbreviations, as well as, in
certain instances, their descriptions, have been used in this Whitepaper. These descriptions and
assigned meanings should not be treated as being definitive of their meanings and may not
correspond to standard industry meanings or usage.
Words importing the singular shall, where applicable, include the plural and vice versa and words
importing the masculine gender shall, where applicable, include the feminine and neuter genders

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

and vice versa. References to persons shall include corporations.
STATEMENT OF NON-AFFILIATION
ECOMI and the OMI Tokens are in no way affiliated, associated, or connected with:
(i)

[Orbis Worldwide Money Transfer and Investment] or its related ORBIS Token
(ORBS) and ORBISInvest token (ORBSi);

(ii)

[Orbis Card];

(iii)

[Team Orbis], or

(iv)

[Orbis Communications LLC] or its related Orbis Token (OBT),

or any of the services provided by or related to any of the foregoing entities, or any of their
respective subsidiaries or affiliates.

Whitepaper v1.0 | ecomi.com | © 2018, Ecomi Technology PTE. Ltd.

