MDEX Economic Whitepaper
1. MDEX Introduction
Mdex is an automatic market-making decentralized exchange based on the concept of
fund pools. MDEX proposes and implements a mix-chain DEX model based on the Heco
Chain and Ethereum. Mdex combines the advantages of the low transaction fees of the
Heco chain and the prosperity of the Ethereum ecosystem. With MDEX, users can also
await dual mining mechanism of liquidity and transactions.
Mdex is committed to building a DeFi platform integrating DEX, IMO/ICO, and DAO on
Heco and ETH, providing users with a safer and more reliable asset selection and
configuration, and a higher expected return on investment decentralized token
exchange service.
As MDEX’s core trading medium token-MDX, this article will describe the economic
model of MDX token in detail.
2. Token Economic
2.1 Basic Information
Name: MDX (MDEX Token)
Total amount: About 1 billion
Block time: Every 3 seconds (based on HECO)
Block Rewards: 80MDX per block
Halve time: halve every six months
2.2 Economic model
The total supply of MDX is about 1 billion, of which 10% is used as a team reward for
operation, and development, etc., and it will be unlocked in 24 months after being

launched by smart contracts. 7% is used as early investors’ share to provide more
sufficient funds and resources; 3% is used for market promotion and brand building;
Both are unlocked in twelve months after being launched. The remaining 80% is used
for liquidity mining and transaction mining on Heco.

The mining reward for each block on Heco is 80MDX, of which liquidity mining
accounts for 50%, transaction mining accounts for 50%, and it is halved every six
months.
2.3 Fee
After the liquidity mining and transaction mining are started, the platform will charge
0.3% of the transaction fee, and 66% of the total fee income will be used to repurchase
and burn MDX and buy HT to airdrop to users who mortgage MDX. Among them, 40%
of the above allocation ratio is used to repurchase and destroy MDX, and the remaining
60% is used to purchase HT for airdrops to MDX pledgers, and the chain is transparent.
The repurchase and burn MDX and buy HT to airdrop to MDX pledgers will be officially
initiated 15 days after the token distribution and will be conducted daily.
3. MDX application scenarios
As the core medium of exchange token of MDEX, MDX not only represents the rights of
the holders, but also has its practical application value. MDX can be used in the
following scenarios.

3.1 Governance tokens
MDX is a community-led decentralized project that can be used for community
governance of MDEX to make decisions on major issues in the community. Such as
voting on transaction fee ratios, review of other important rules, and the decision to
achieve deflation in the face of periodic repurchase and destruction of tokens. The list
is as follows:
3.1.1 Voting
The comprehensive evaluation is made according to the transaction volume and total
value locked of the project, and the MDX users vote for the decision.
3.1.2 Repurchase and destruction
MDX will charge 0.3% of the transaction fee, and 66% of the total fee income will be
used to repurchase and burn MDX and buy HT to airdrop to users who mortgage MDX.
Among them, 40% of the above allocation ratio is used to repurchase and destroy MDX,
and the remaining 60% is used to purchase HT for airdrops to MDX pledgers, and the
chain is transparent.
3.2 Standard fundraising tokens
MDX is also a standard fundraising token used by HT-IMO, a de-centralization
fundraising protocol based on MDEX platform. It’s similar to use ETH to do ICOs on
Ethereum platform and will have greater value as IMO is widely used.
4. Summary
MDEX is a highly innovative DEFI project that combines the advantages of DEX on the
market and the features of centralized exchange platform token. Based on the Huocoin
ecological chain which is developing rapidly and gradually flourishing in ecology,
MDEX has a great space for imagination and growth.
MDEX aims to lay a foundation for accelerating the ecological construction of DEFI of
Huobi ecological chain, and also looks forward to working with the community to build

a more prosperous DEFI ecosystem for Huobi ecological chain. Starting from DEX,
MDEX is looking forward to giving play to the unlimited potential of DEFI in the fields
of lending, insurance, asset management and so on.
The design and implementation of the MDEX project are also continuously improved,
including how to attract more external assets, and how to innovate more business
model of DEFI. We are looking forward to the active participation of all community
members to optimize the MDEX project.

