5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

Wavesplatform

Follow

Crypto‑platform for asset/custom token issuance, transfer and trading on blockchain.
Apr 1, 2016 · 10 min read

WAVES whitepaper.

Abstract
WAVES is a decentralized blockchain platform focusing on custom
blockchain tokens operations. National currencies transfer is
maintained on the WAVES blockchain through compliant gateway
operators. Decentralized token exchange facilitates fundraising,
crowdfunding, and trading of ﬁnancial instruments on the blockchain.
Lightweight clients provide an easy installation procedure and a ﬂat
learning curve for end users.
Introduction
‘Hypothesis: Every conceivable application of blockchain technology will
be tried, but p2p digital cash will remain most used application’.

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

1/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

Ryan X Charles
‘The killer application of blockchain technology is the blockchain itself.’
Common wisdom
Since its inception, blockchain technology has been fraught with
controversy over its most natural application — value transfer using
the network token. Decentralized money is a ground-breaking
development, but blockchain technology cannot be reduced to this
alone. Being essentially a distributed database, the blockchain allows
for various types of distributed ledger entries, the nature of which
depends on their interpretation by the blockchain’s users.
Introducing the blockchain as a foundation for digital cash attracted a
great deal of attention to the technology, putting regulators and
governments worldwide on high alert in the process. There is no
doubt that Bitcoin will establish itself as a valid monetary system. But
it is also obvious that there should not be too many blockchain tokens
in use as money at the present time, since the low liquidity and high
volatility this causes prevent the use of emerging blockchains as a
secure store of value.
We propose to focus on other uses of blockchain tokens — those which
are often overlooked in favor of the low-level opportunities which
blockchain technology might provide, such as smart contracts. There
is very strong untapped potential in a classical colored coins
approach, and the WAVES platform is designed to realize this to its
fullest extent.
Smart contracts, being a natural development of Bitcoin scripting, are
inevitable and will be one of the cornerstones of blockchain
technology. On the other hand, certain features are much easier to
implement using other approaches. Custom tokens operations realized
as an attachment to blockchain transactions are very ﬂexible and can
be used in a variety of applications, from national currencies transfer
over the blockchain to decentralized trading. A focus on such
operations might well complement the approach introduced by
Ethereum.[1]
In the following sections we will describe the technical motivation for
WAVES platform’s features and illustrate them with use cases. We

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

2/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

intend to determine the most “production-ready” aspects of current
blockchain technology and apply them to the real-world problems.
Custom blockchain tokens and their usage.
Technical motivation.
Blockchain assets and colored coins approaches emerged around 2013,
when several protocols utilizing Bitcoin’s blockchain were
implemented. [4] [5] [6] Besides this, there were several attempts to
build custom bloсkchain tokens platform from scratch, of which the
most notable is Nxt. [7]
We develop the approach which Nxt implemented, realizing custom
tokens creation and transfer through attachments added to blockchain
transactions. This approach has clear merits, such as the ability to
implement new transaction types easily, but from practical point of
view it is fraught with the problem of mandatory hard forks — when
adding a new transaction type, network client software has to be
updated, since old clients cannot support new transaction types.
WAVES approaches this problem by oﬀering an extensible solution, in
which new transaction types are introduced through plug-ins that are
not included in the core software module, but are instead installed as
an extension on top of it. Clients that do not have the relevant plug-in
installed can still relay these custom transactions. This approach
allows third-party developers to introduce new transaction types, and
creates an Appstore-like ecosystem.
Only the most basic transaction types are supported at the core level,
including:
- Custom token creation, deletion and transfer
- Decentralized token exchange, realized as a distributed ordermatching engine, where Bid and Ask network transactions are
matched against each other
- Anonymity features — anonymous order books are a must for an
industry-grade trading platform

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

3/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

It should be noted that WAVES makes a crucial step ahead with
decentralized blockchain trading by oﬀering trading of one custom
token against another (asset-to-asset trading). This opens up a whole
new range of opportunities, including trading against tokens tied to
national currencies, thus replicating traditional trading
infrastructures.
Use cases
National currencies on the blockchain.
Although using the main network token for value transfer is quite
natural, it nevertheless raises several issues. Use of low-liquidity and
highly volatile tokens for value transfer has obvious drawbacks for
merchants, and creates tension with regulatory bodies. Still, fully
decentralized money is viable, which is demonstrated by the slow but
steady adoption of Bitcoin as a currency.
However, in order to provide suﬃcient liquidity and mitigate the
volatility that prevents decentralized money usage as a store of value,
the overall number of tokens used as currency should be limited (at
least in the initial stages of the development of the technology). We
strongly advocate using only Bitcoin as a currency for this reason.
Our approach to handling external value transfer tokens and
currencies stems from the ‘Multigateway’ approach.[2] In the case of
Bitcoin there is a party (or multi-sig parties) that maintains an in-andout exchange procedure for Bitcoin, swapping it for its corresponding
network token. Thus we facilitate Bitcoin transfers using the WAVES
blockchain.
This approach is obviously centralized, due to limitations inherent in
Bitcoin itself. It is opposed to a “market peg” approach, which relies
on providing a dynamic peg though certain market-making
procedures. At ﬁrst sight the market peg approach may seem to be an
adequate way of mirroring ﬁnancial assets on decentralised platform,
but with further consideration hidden centralization invariably
surfaces.
By explicitly introducing centralization into supporting blockchain
national currencies and BTC we are able to open new horizons for
existing ﬁnancial institutions. Their role can be reduced to providing

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

4/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

liquidity for their ﬁat assets and KYC/AML procedures. Maintaining
payment infrastructure is fully outsourced to decentralized
blockchains.
This approach to providing national currencies on the blockchain was
pioneered with the CoinoUSD token on Nxt’s blockchain. It is also
similar to Ripple’s gateways approach. We believe that such a strategy
can compete with the emerging permissioned blockchains approach
and attract ﬁnancial institutions willing to work on open blockchains.
Crowdfunding, decentralized ﬁnancial instruments and beyond.
We believe that blockchains are an eﬀective means for managing most
aspects of community-based projects, from ﬁnancial to organizational
elements. Blockchain technology, due to its innate latency, cannot
support high-frequency trading. Most probably centralized solutions
will always be preferable for high-volume transactions with
milliseconds execution times. But for applications in which instant
transactions are not required, blockchains provide a very natural
environment — for example, for issuing crowdfunding tokens and
managing ﬁnancial ﬂows within a community. This is an area in
which using decentralized solutions is beneﬁcial and centralization
brings little to the table.
If we consider a Kickstarter-like model of pledging certain amounts of
money in exchange for a product to be released in the future, we can
see its obvious limitations. A project backer cannot exit her
“investment” in the project by selling it another user. On the other
hand such a use case is very natural using a blockchain-based system,
where custom tokens can be swapped and transferred by design.
Issuing securities is highly regulated in most jurisdictions. Tokens can
be associated with securities, especially if some projections about
future token price are made or a token issuer promises to pay certain
dividend. However, the blockchain is a regulation-agnostic
instrument. If a legal entity wishing to utilize the blockchain for a
securities issue is compliant with local laws and regulations then
issuing securities on a blockchain is as legitimate as conducting a
stock exchange listing.

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

5/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

Start-up fundraising, private investment placements and venture-stage
investments seem to be the most appropriate areas for blockchainpowered ﬁnancial instruments. On the other hand it can be used by a
larger businesses for speciﬁc ﬁnancial operations too, such as clearing
and settlement, so long as these do not entail overly taxing speed
requirements.
In most jurisdictions (notably excluding the US), blockchain-based
fundraising that does not exceed a given limit can be carried out
perfectly legally. Equity crowdfunding laws in the US allow
fundraising with a simpliﬁed SEC registration procedure.
Strict US securities laws are intended to prevent fraud, and for this a
strong centralized watchdog, such as US Securities and Exchange
Commission, is needed. But the advance of decentralized technology
can introduce some form of community and decentralized issuer
vetting, which might eventually replace centralized regulators.
Having crowdfunding as one of WAVES platform’s main use cases
means that some form of decentralized KYC/AML must be integrated
into the system core. To that end we are realizing a decentralized
reputation system, which should eliminate unscrupulous actors on the
WAVES blockchain.
Lightweight clients, two-tier architecture, Proof of Stake, and
usability.
Technical motivation.
Two-tier architecture and lightweight clients.
The classic Bitcoin approach is essentially a way to synchronize a
distributed system through common transaction logs. It requires that
each network node store the full copy of the transaction history.
Obviously this does not scale well, since eventually not every node
will be able to store the full history. There are diﬀerent ways to
mitigate this — a simpliﬁed payment veriﬁcation procedure that allows
storage of only that data essential for a given node; oﬀ-chain
transactions; bidirectional payment tunnels; reducing blockchain
bloat; working directly with the system state [8]. With the simplest
approach, where all nodes are equal at Genesis block, centralization
may emerge as low-capacity nodes have to rely on full, high-capacity

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

6/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

nodes that can aﬀord to store the full blockchain. Eﬀectively, a twotier architecture emerges.
Does this make the system inherently centralized? No, since a new
node can always enter the network and become a full node if it has
suﬃcient resources.
Of course, emerging centralization brings trust issues, since
lightweight nodes have to trust the full nodes and can become a
victim of a rogue full node. However, there are ways to mitigate this,
such as polling several nodes, maintaining trusted nodes lists, and so
on.
WAVES platform enforces an approach that might at ﬁrst seem
extreme to a classic cryptocurrency advocate. Lightweight nodes do
not download the blockchain at all, instead relying on full nodes for
payment veriﬁcation and network interaction. The approach is based
on the SuperNET lite client[3] that has successfully been run on the
Nxt platform for over a year.
WAVES is built on the Scorex platform,[8] which develops an
approach based on using current network state as an alternative to
full transaction history. A simpliﬁed payment veriﬁcation procedure
will be realized for the lightweight node, adding another security
layer. System state can be downloaded by a lightweight node, and
simpliﬁed payment veriﬁcation procedures based on this.
Proof-of-stake consensus, stake leasing.
We have chosen the Proof-of-Stake protocol as a consensus algorithm
for WAVES. This choice is based on its successful use in Nxt, as well as
on certain theoretical considerations. At the same time we propose an
enhancement to the PoS protocol, which should provide for reduced
transaction times and increased transaction throughput — Leased PoS
(LPoS).
In a PoS system each node that holds a balance in the main network
token has a chance (proportional to its balance) to produce a block. In
the two-tier architecture it is logical to move payment processing onto
the full nodes alone. At the same time, all nodes with non-zero
balances still have to be eligible for staking rewards.

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

7/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

The theoretical issue of reduced security caused by fewer nodes
staking can be addressed through explicit balance leasing from
lightweight nodes to full nodes. By leasing their balance to a trusted
full node a lightweight node actually increases its chance of collecting
transaction fees, since it does not have to stay online, and the full
node has an increased chance of producing a block due to its
increased balance.
Account leasing is not equivalent to balance transfer; a lightweight
node can still transfer its balance to another node and conduct other
operations. By leasing out their balance, lightweight nodes eﬀectively
select which full nodes will carry out most of the network’s payment
processing. Reducing the number of nodes that can potentially
produce blocks allows for faster conﬁrmation times, lower latency,
and a higher system throughput.
Lightweight nodes realization and browser plugins.
The lightweight node is realized as a browser plugin written in
JavaScript. It interacts with Scorex-based full nodes. The plugin is
installed from browser app-stores. Since no blockchain download is
needed a user obtains a fully-ﬂedged blockchain-powered wallet
immediately following a simple installation procedure.
The wallet interface resembles traditional online banking/brokerage
interfaces. Integrated national currencies allow for native value
transfer denominated in ﬁat. Exchange of national currencies into and
out of the blockchain is carried out by a trusted provider. Once a user
has completed the national currency token purchase she can transfer
it to another user or trade with it on a decentralized exchange.
Asset-to-asset trading makes it possible to provide a stock market-like
trading interface, by allowing trading against USD, EUR, CNY, and so
on. All in all, the platform interface is closer to traditional ﬁnancial
interfaces than to a normal cryptocurrency client. We ﬁnd it
important to provide an interface to which most users are already well
accustomed, at the same time as empowering it with blockchain
technology. Users can do things they were unable to do with
traditional ﬁnancial platforms, but the learning curve remains ﬂat,
which is a key to mass-market adoption.

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

8/10

5/20/2017

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

Additional key WAVES features.
WAVES targets in the ﬁrst place community-based development and
projects. To that end decentralized voting and messaging are
implemented. It will allow for a DAO-like experience in managing
community projects, whilst remaining straightforward from a
technical point of view.
WAVES will allow payment of network transaction fees in custom
tokens (assets). Along with the transaction in question, an order to
exchange the asset into the main network token is sent to the
decentralized exchange, and the transaction can be included in the
next block only after that order has been executed.
Conclusion.
WAVES platform is being built with mass adoption in mind from the
start. In this general overview we have attempted to show the
technical solutions that may be used to give the end-user previously
unseen opportunities, and to pave the way for the rapid adoption of
blockchain technology.
References.
[1] https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper
[2] http://multigateway.org/
[3] https://github.com/Tosch110/SuperNet-Lite
[4] https://github.com/CounterpartyXCP
[5] https://github.com/OpenAssets/open-assets-protocol
[6] https://github.com/OmniLayer/spec
[7] http://wiki.nxtcrypto.org/wiki/Whitepaper:Nxt
[8] http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.07926

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

9/10

5/20/2017

https://blog.wavesplatform.com/waves-whitepaper-164dd6ca6a23

WAVES whitepaper. – Waves Platform

10/10

