1

As part of their remit of continuing
to evolve money and payments,
Central Banks around the world
are beginning to explore, test and
implement some form of Central
Bank Digital Currency (CBDC).
There are a number of reasons for the
growing momentum behind offering
sovereign-backed versions of private
cryptocurrencies.
The Rise of CBDCs
Through the power of blockchain technology, financial
institutions are enabling seamless, instant global payments.
Each Central Bank will also have its own motivations for
pursuing a digital currency that will be driven by specific
market challenges and opportunities.
The nature of that primary goal – whether it’s overcoming
limitations of existing payments infrastructure, promoting
financial inclusion, boosting competition or fostering
innovation – will determine the approach and technology of
each CBDC.
It is likely that we will end up with a world of diverse CBDCs,
which makes interoperability critical. Though most Central
Banks are focused on solving domestic problems, the global
nature of trade and finance means cross-border coordination
must be baked into the original recipe of each CBDC.
The internet became a global tool for the exchange of
information because the world agreed to build it using
common standards. Likewise, CBDCs can adopt open
payments protocols and use neutral bridge assets to
facilitate a frictionless exchange of value across borders.
Without this crucial interoperability, Central Banks will be
putting limits on their CBDC’s success while compromising
the future of their financial system – instead of developing a
more effective and inclusive evolution of money.

Key Findings
Trend for declining cash use has been
accelerated by COVID-19 as more people
shop online and opt for contact-free
payment options.

¼

of US consumers used cash less often
since the pandemic began.

Facebook’s announcement of plans to
create its own digital coin prompted
fears that it could undermine the
traditional global financial system.

2.4B

users is the potential global reach of
Facebook-backed currency.

China’s testing of a digital yuan payment
system potentially threatens the U.S.
Dollar’s position as the dominant global
reserve currency.

Feb 2022

Proposed launch date for China’s CBDC.

There is a growing need for a more
effective way for governments to pay
benefits or stimulus money directly to
citizens, especially the unbanked.

1.7B

Number of unbanked adults across the
world.

2

S E CT I O N I

Introduction
to CBDCs

What Is a Central Bank
Digital Currency?
A CBDC is the sovereign equivalent
of private cryptocurrencies and
digital assets like Bitcoin, Ethereum
and XRP. It would be issued and
controlled by a country’s Central Bank
and used by people and businesses
for retail payments, much like cash
but in digital form. CBDCs will also be
used for wholesale settlements in the
interbank market.
CBDCs: The Future of Fiat
Central Banks issuing their own digital currencies is a natural
evolution of how we exchange value. But that does not
mean that CBDC development should simply follow the old
pathways. Our existing currencies were created in a
much less globalized world and are not designed for
efficient exchange.
While most markets are exploring CBDCs that solve specific
domestic challenges, each Central Bank also needs to
implement a holistic strategy that enables their CBDC to
interact in the global market efficiently and ensure it can
scale and evolve to meet future requirements.

The Main Benefits of CBDCs
Enhance existing payments infrastructure:
Increase the speed and efficiency of
payments, while reducing costs and
failure rates

Promote financial inclusion:
Increase access to financial services for
under and unbanked populations and
enhance direct person-to-person payments

Encourage greater competition:
Reduce barriers to entry and boost access
to global markets through interoperability

Foster innovation:
Use advanced digital features like smart
contracts and programmable money that
will be the basis of new financial services

Maintain control:
Ensure Central Banks retain sovereignty
over monetary policy and not allow
alternative currencies to dominate
the market

4

80% of Central Banks are actively
exploring CBDCs: This map shows
a subset of these countries.

SW E D E N

I CE L AND
NO RWAY

L I T HUANI A
CANADA
UK

CHI NA

SW I T Z E R L AND

U K RAI NE

E U RO PE

JA PA N

USA

BA H A MAS
I S RAE L
SO U T H
KO R E A

EAST ERN CARI B B EAN
CURREN CY UN I ON

B RA ZI L

T HAI L AND

S I NG AP O R E

URAGUAY

SO U T H
AF R I CA

Legend
Creating CBDC Prototypes
Advanced Research Stage
Early Research Stage

AU ST RAL I A

MARSHALL
I S L A N DS

S E CT I O N I I

The Main
Barriers
Impeding
CBDC
Success

Despite the many benefits of
CBDCs, most Central Banks are
understandably cautious about
pursuing real-world initiatives.
Everything, from how people pay bills
and buy groceries to how businesses
transact and governments are run,
depends on a stable financial system
CBDC initiatives raise many
challenges for Central Banks,
who must balance the desire for
transformation with the need to
maintain stability on a global scale.

The Need for Control Versus
Desire for Innovation
Most existing digital assets are based on decentralized
blockchains where every transaction is validated by a public
network of hundreds, often thousands of validators. Central
Banks will not be willing to relinquish control to a completely
distributed model, as they need the ability to direct and
influence their economies through currency management
While a fully centralized model would provide the required
control, Central Banks would miss out on innovations like
programmable money and smart contracts that blockchain
technology enables. It would also reduce the ability of
private sector players to access and collaborate with CBDCs.
In addition, Central Banks are typically focusing CBDC
approaches, solutions and technologies on achieving
specific domestic goals. However, many stakeholders
interested in using CBDCs will have other needs as well as
global requirements.
If Central Banks do not enable the broad access, enhanced
native functionality and interoperability that will allow their
currencies to be adaptive and scalable, they risk losing
control of the infrastructure for global digitized services.

"If [CBDCs] are cheaper, faster,
more secure for users, we should
explore it. If it's going to contribute to
better monetary sovereignty, better
autonomy, we should explore it. If
it's going to facilitate cross-border
payments, we should explore it."
Christine Lagarde, President of the European Central Bank

8

Connecting Across Borders

Including Non-bank Channels

The vast majority of CBDC initiatives are focused on
domestic use cases and in a 2019 BIS survey, Central
Banks rated cross-border payments as among their least
important considerations. This may be due to the fact
that typically, Central Banks are not part of cross-border
payment flows and do not have the infrastructure to deal
with related functions like transaction monitoring and Know
Your Customer (KYC), Anti-Money Laundering (AML) checks.
Having its CBDC circulating in foreign jurisdictions
will also impact a Central Bank’s monetary policy and
liquidity management.

One of the bigger drivers of financial inclusion over the past
decade has been the rise of financial services from outside
the banking sector, such as remittances providers and digital
wallets. These services are pioneering new offerings and
alternative experiences for traditional banking users.

Yet, it is extremely short-sighted to overlook cross-border
requirements just because these requirements come with
additional challenges. In our globalized world, consumers
and businesses will inevitably have a need to transact with
foreign suppliers and vendors. CBDCs that are interoperable
with each other will give those countries a competitive
advantage, much like how being part of a trading block
benefits member nations.
It will take a lot of effort to harmonize the global frameworks
and standards that will enable CBDCs to be successful for
cross-border payments. It’s critical that Central Banks start
working together to resolve these issues now, rather than
leaving a bigger problem to fix further down the line.

Current fiat currency capabilities limit the effectiveness of
monetary digitization and compel end users to transact
in the private cryptocurrencies that Central Banks often
view as a threat to financial stability. CBDCs will help retain
those users, while boosting financial inclusion and enabling
governments to make direct payments to citizens effectively,
especially those who are unbanked.
This will require Central Banks to provide non-bank
participants with greater access to core payment systems
and infrastructure than they currently offer. They will also
have to start understanding the potential impact of this
change on the role of commercial banks as gatekeepers to
retail customers, in order to ensure the continuing stability of
the entire system.

Confirming Identities
While many private digital assets make a virtue out of
anonymity, the ability to identify CBDC users will be a
fundamental requirement for Central Banks.
When the U.S. government was struggling to get muchneeded stimulus checks to citizens and businesses during
the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, fintech advocates
noted that a CBDC would have made it much faster and
cheaper to pay people directly. However, it would also have
required robust identity infrastructure to ensure that each
payment was transferred to the right person.
Many other benefits of CBDCs require ID certainty — and the
ability to clearly connect users and transactions will be a key
condition for Central Banks. Some private cryptocurrencies
are already beginning to grapple with some of these issues
and Central Banks will need to build on their efforts to create
interoperable ID solutions that work globally.

9

By 2024, at least half of the world’s
population is expected to use
digital wallets for transactions
that will be valued at more than
$9 trillion annually.

S E CT I O N I I I

Bridging
the Gap in
Innovation

The Three Keys to Overcoming
Every CBDC Challenge
1. Interoperability
For a digital currency to have any utility to people and
businesses, it needs to coexist and interact with other
payment schemes in that domestic market. The next level
of interoperability for CBDCs is the ability to work for global
transactions. Without seamless cross-border functionality,
most CBDC projects will significantly underachieve their
potential.
Just as the global internet thrived by early agreement on
common protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP and FTP, so too should
Central Banks start coordinating on CBDC standards to
cover basic functions, including:
•

Transaction-level operations, such as escrow
and hash time-locks

•

Identity and addressing schemes

•

Flexible routing to determine most efficient
ways of transmission

For an even greater level of interoperability, Central Banks
will need the ability to actually exchange assets between
ledgers, rather than issuing instructions via an API. The key
will be for all Central Banks to enable cross-issuance of
CBDCs on interoperable ledgers.
Each individual CBDC can create its own rules and policies
that best suit its domestic market. However, CBDCs should
also be united and guided by collective protocols that will
enable them to cooperate seamlessly with other CBDCs
and Digital Currencies .
Such a network of networks will allow independent CBDCs
to also operate as a unit and make cross-border value
exchange faster, cheaper and more reliable for businesses
and consumers. It means pushing the idea of interoperability
further than many Central Banks have yet considered — but
without these shared standards, CBDCs will be as inefficient
and expensive a way to exchange value globally as existing
fiat currencies.

This will allow CBDCs to connect with other domestic
services, as well as each other, thereby enhancing their
utility, lowering transaction costs and reducing barriers for
new market entrants — while allowing each Central Bank to
retain sovereignty.

Every CBDC will need to have
some basic level of interoperability
built into it from day one.
11

2. Public and Private Partnerships

3. Neutral Bridge Currencies

The infrastructure supporting the existing financial system
is vast and varied and not likely to be redundant any time
soon. CBDC technology cannot replace what we already
have, which is why a layered architecture model, where new
systems are built on top of the existing infrastructure, makes
the most sense.

While interoperability will support the direct exchange
of a CBDC in domestic transactions, many of the same,
old issues with cross-border transactions will remain.
In particular, supporting immediate real-time foreign
exchanges, as opposed to the current 3-5 day process, will
likely still require the need for prefunded currency accounts.

A major benefit of layered architecture is that Central Banks
can call on the expertise of the private sector to implement
CBDC infrastructure without compromising the integrity of
the rest of its system. Many reputable private companies
have developed successful digital currencies — their
technology and experience can help Central Banks get
initiatives up-and-running faster and more effectively than
starting from scratch.

Like any commercial bank or global business, Central Banks
will want to avoid the increased costs and risks associated
with this familiar liquidity issue. They would also welcome
the ability to free up capital that could be generating value
elsewhere and skews the financial system in favor of the
most liquid currencies – typically those of the most
powerful nations.

A CBDC could be issued and managed using a private
version of an existing decentralized ledger. While blockchain
transactions are typically validated by many public
validators, Central Banks could restrict this ability to a
handful of trusted partners such as commercial banks or
the different member states of cooperating unions like the
European Union or Eastern Caribbean Currency Union.
This would give Central Banks the flexibility and functionality
that comes with decentralized ledgers, while retaining
enough centralized control over their monetary policies and
economic management.

A neutral bridge asset can support healthy, alternative
liquidity markets that will allow for frictionless and costeffective value movement between various CBDCs in
real-time. It would also enable the exchange of less liquid
CBDC pairs and increase global competition by lowering
entry barriers to new and smaller market participants.
To enable a truly efficient global market, a bridge currency
must be specifically optimized for payments and support
the same speed, scalability, low cost and security that
CBDCs will provide. One example of a neutral bridge is the
digital asset XRP, which can be used to bridge two different
currencies quickly and efficiently.
By underpinning an effective alternative liquidity market,
neutral bridge currencies are the final piece of the
interoperability puzzle that will drive the success of CBDCs
as a global tool for exchanging value.

"A neutral bridge asset can support
healthy, alternative liquidity markets
that will allow for frictionless and
cost-effective value movement
between various CBDCs in real-time"
12

S E CT I O N I V

Closing

Time to Define the Future of Money
The introduction of CBDCs will be
one of the defining transformations
in the history of money.
How the underlying technology is
implemented and monetary policies
are set over the coming decade
will determine whether sovereignbacked digital assets open the door
to enhance global trade and financial
inclusion or maintain the siloed,
inefficient and inequitable status quo.

Today, some Central Banks are moving faster than others,
when it comes to piloting programs and implementing
initiatives. But the future success of CBDCs will require a
global consensus, rather than relying on a few pioneers with
their own agendas to lead the way. The world’s Central Banks
must come together to agree on common CBDC standards
and protocols that will enable interoperability, while also
drawing on the existing knowledge and infrastructure of the
private sector to accelerate initiatives.
CBDCs have enormous potential but must first overcome
numerous challenges. Now is the time for Central Banks to
explore these issues, develop common solutions and ensure
that the next evolution of money benefits more people and
businesses and makes the world better.

About Ripple

Join the Conversation

Ripple provides one frictionless experience to send money
globally using the power of blockchain technology.

twitter.com/ripple
linkedin.com/company/ripple-labs
ripple.com/insights
facebook.com/ripplepay.

By joining Ripple’s growing global network, financial
institutions can process their customers’ payments
anywhere in the world instantly, reliably and cost-effectively.

Contact Us
For more information, please contact us
at CBDC@ripple.com

©2020 Ripple. All rights reserved.

14

