BANANO: a Feeless, Instant, Rich in
Potassium Cryptocurrency Powered by DAG
Technology Disrupting the Meme Economy

Banoshi Nakanano

www.banano.cc

Abstract

Don't let your memes be dreams.

 
1. Introduction

In the year 2009, we saw the introduction of the first ever decentralized payment network, the mother
of all coins, Bitcoin [1]. In the years that followed, global interest grew and Bitcoin inspired the
genesis of numerous cryptography based projects that also worked towards trustless secure payment
systems and storage of value.

Bitcoin uses blockchain technology where a distributed ledger records transactions chronologically
and publicly. Subsequent advancement in the space gave rise to second generation projects like
Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, Stellar, Monero and many others, which built on this concept by adding
new features, and sometimes by acting as platforms for dApps - the execution of decentralised
applications. Then finally in 2015, Sergio Lerner published a paper describing the applicability of so-
called Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAG) to the field of cryptography [2]. This concept was adopted by
multiple third generation cryptocurrencies. One such project originally developed by Colin LeMahieu
emerged by specifically targeting the scalability issues plaguing generations one and two: Raiblocks.
Raiblocks rebranded to NANO in January 2018 [3].

BANANDO is a feeless, instant, rich in potassium cryptocurrency powered by DAG technology
disrupting the meme economy. It is the first ferk peel of NANO, the genesis block redefining the
memeconomy on | April 2018. Oh, did you know that Colin Lemahieu, the founder of Nano, likes
us? Yea, that’s right (Figure 1)!
 

a

OD
o

Figure 1: “7 think memecoins are hilarious, we have one, we have BANANO, I like those guys!”
Colin LeMahieu, Nano Founder

Similar to NANO, BANANO has quite more properties and advantages over classical
cryptocurrencies than simply being high in potassium, obviously (Table 1).

Table 1: Feature comparison: BANANO vs. Bitcoin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feature Bitcoin BANANO
Block Interval 10 Minutes on Average Instant
Confirmation Time About 30 Minutes 3 Seconds
Transaction Fees Up to $50 on Average Free
Energy Use Immense Negligible
Distribution Mining Faucets, Games, Contests
Transaction Throughput Low and Limited High and Unlimited
Participation Permissionless Permissionless
Cryptography Basic Advanced
Hashing Algorithm SHA256(2001) Blake2b (2012)
Signing Algorithm ECDSA (2009) ed25519 (2011)
Consensus Proof of Work Open Representative Voting
Chain Type Single Chain Asynchronous Chains
Backing Speculation Memes
Deployement Status Deployed January 2009 Deployed April 2018

 
2. Background: What is BANANO?

BANANO started as a joke between a devoted group of NANO contributors and resulted in a coin
being the product of a considerable amount of effort (without taking itself too seriously). While it's
true that BANANO kept big portions of the original node code to keep cross-chain compatibility
between existing code libraries, many parameters have been fine-tuned, such as work requirements
and units. As it progresses, the node code will likely diverge further. NANO has the mantra of ‘do
one thing and do it well’. BANANO, however, is more open to feature additions, e.g. on-chain
messaging or privacy. BANANO doesn’t aim for drastic modifications of the reference
implementation of the node at this early stage: it’s more about improving the ecosystem and ensuring
we have the best developers to do so!

It’s hard to overlook the exceptional tools and utilities that our hard working develepers monkeys
have contributed thus far. Take a peek at BANANO’s mobile wallet, Kalium (Figure 2). It’s a modern
mobile wallet designed to be efficient and effective when transferring BANANO between you and
your banfam - that is to say, your BANANO Family. With it, you can send instant transactions to
anyone, anywhere, for free! On top of this and in line with the overall philosophy behind BANANO,
Kalium is easy-to-use to ensure anyone will be able to get started with BANANO in minutes, without
requiring any crypto-related knowledge whatsoever.

Figure 2: Kalium - BANANO’s mobile wallet (Download).

“18,800 8

trate

SEND FROM

ate)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Tati te

Crate

Copy Address

ate)

|
Co

SS

 

 

We also haven't forgotten the roots of our BANANO tree. We made the tech from Kalium Wallet
available for NANO users with Natrium, a mobile wallet for NANO based on Kalium tech! Adding
features and helping other developers to create feasible concepts are just some of the few things we
do while hanging in our BANANO hammocks. Most importantly, we work on the BANANO
ecosystem and second layer solutions such as CAMO BANANO, our super-secret privacy layer,
which is currently in development (Phase 1 announcement).

BANANDO prides itself in its acttve development and pro-active community. BANANO community
members have created fascinating projects, such as an implementation of BANANO into Minecraft,
guild rewards in mobile games and apps, and even faucet bots on popular streaming platforms and

highly used tipbots on major social media platforms such as Telegram, Twitter, Discord and Reddit.

One of the most impactful differences between NANO and BANANO is that we started with billions
of newly minted coins (Figure 3), 3.4 billion to be exact, that we use to continually run faucets that
propagate DAG technology, fuel the tipping economy, and fund community projects. In that way, our
objectives are similar to those of the NanoCenter—a community of NANO fans, investors, and
contributors who operate parallel to NANO core.

BANANDO follows a gamification approach and strives to also get into the hands of people who have
never iteracted with crypto betore. Given its (apparently) silly and potasstum-nich nature, BANANO
is friendly and somewhat forgiving to new users. Let’s be real, losing “some memecoins earned from
sh*tposting” is not half as bad as “suffering a stolen” on a large investment. After all, making the start
with cryptocurrency as easy as possible through a fun attitude, gamification, and education is a main
aim of the project, finally enabling everyone to finally handle crypto assets in general in a responsible

way.

ALSO, it’s important to note: behind all the memes and sh*tposting, the BANANO operation has a
hichh-skitedteam dedicated community, and it is very, very, legit.

 

Figure 3: BANANO is the first peel of the NANO cryptocurrency and adheres to the open-source spirit. In the figure

above, NANO in its raw form is remodelled through a combination of proof-of-work optimisation and potassium doping,

resulting in unprecedented performance.
3. BANANO Specifications

3.1. Accounts

In order to keep your precious BANANO safe, you'll need a wallet. A wallet can be accessed using a
public key, also known as a wallet address; and a private key, also known as a seed. Together, the
public key and the private key form a key-pair. The wallet address is its public key, it’s basically like
your bank account number. You can share your wallet address with anyone in the world and your
BANANO will remain secure. Every BANANO wallet address begins with the prefix, "ban_"
(Figure 4).

Fg BANANO

ban_lmemelyacdid
1u69wcu/et3kzrr1l

s4yoizd9mx/nstaqp
1c9e69979m)d4fun

SBAN BANANO.CC

 

Figure 4: A BANANO public address, starting with “ban_”. The QR code shown contains the exact same information and

can be read by applications such as Kalium.

A wallet ceed ic knawn ac ite nrivate kaw hecance it ahealitely muct he kent nrivate Tt’¢ the
22 VYGILUL OUUEE 19 JNUIU YVUL Go LU PIV OLY Rwy USUI IL GUOULULeLYy LILLE Ue RYE plivaiw, 209 WIN

equivalent to your bank account login information. Never share your BANANO seed! Anyone that
has your seed can access your delicious pile of BANANO, which can lead to a potassium deficiency.

To join the other jungle MonKeys and get a BANANO wallet of your own, you've got several options
(Figure 5):

* Desktop wallet: BANANO Vault Web Wallet.
* Mobile wallet: Kalium (Android & iOS).

¢ Hardware wallet: Ledger Nano S model is supported with the BANANO Vault.

Account Details

 
 
Received

999

Received
ae.

Received

Receive

Confirm transaction

1919BAN “

 

Figure 5: Overview of main BANANO wallets.
3.2. Rise of the Block Lettuce

How is BANANO developed to offer feeless, almost instant transactions? Enter the Block Lettuce.

 

 

 

 

 
 

Figure 6: Block Lettuce.

BANANDO uses a Block Lettuce (Figure 6) architecture to achieve lightening-quick transfer speeds.
Each account has its own blockchain. Transferring funds from one account to another requires two
transactions: a send which deducts value from the sender's balance and a receive adds the same
amount to the receiver's balance. An account encodes its accumulated total balance when it makes a
transaction, therefore nodes only need to keep track of the latest block rather than expend larger
resources to track an account's full transaction history. Correctness is maintained, however there is a
vast reduction in time and work versus a single-blockchain architecture used by other
cryptocurrencies.

3.3. BANANOdes

The BANANO ledger is secured through Open Representative Voting (previously called ‘delegated
Proof-of-Stake’), a powerful decentralization mechanism that has no strong analog in Proof-of-Work
(PoW) or Proof-of-Stake (POS) algorithms. In conventional PoS systems, the account owner's node
must be running to participate in voting. By contrast, BANANO account holders choose a
representative node to vote on their behalf in the event of conflicting transactions. Continuously
running a node is impractical for many everyday users; giving a representative the power to proxy
vote reduces that requirement. A user has the ability to easily reassign their representative to any
account at any time through a change transaction. The weight of the account is subtracted from the
old representative and added to the new representative. No funds are moved in this transaction, and
the representative does not have spending power of the account's funds.

PoW in BANANO is solely used as an anti-spam tool and computation is almost instant. Once a
transaction is sent, the PoW for the next block can be pre-computed, as the previous block field is
already known. Therefore, as long as the time between transactions is greater than the time required
to compute the PoW, transactions appear instantaneous to users (Figure 7).

 
 

Figure 7: A real-time Kalium transaction and BANANO & NANO speed comparison.

3.4. Proof-of-Work

NANO's Proof-of-Work mechanism intends to serve as an anti-spam mechanism at the cost of
unnecessarily delaying block generation on low-end machines. This makes community projects and
field studies harder to maintain and grow. NANO's ability to pre-cache one work upfront doesn't help
much, and concurrent work caching often isn't feasible either. That's why for BANANO, we chose a
quicker proof-of-work generation time, but kept the original algorithm (hashing a nonce that is
concatenated with the block hash, until the result exceeds a certain threshold). As a result, the
BANANDO protocol runs on low power hardware, enabling it to be a lightweight, practical and
decentralized cryptocurrency for everyday use. On average, generation times are 8x faster for

Wawra . AT ART a4 oo4 1 ’ m1 . a a 10
BANANU tnan tor NANU while consuming &x less electricity. Lnere’s a mathematical formula to
calculate this: (2°4 - Oxfffffe0000000000) / (2°4 - OxffffffcO00000000), this work generation is even
mobile friendly! Existing work generator software is backwards compatible, but it should be adjusted
to the new threshold to not waste energy unnecessarily.

3.5. MonKey

Cryptocurrency wallet addresses are typically long strings of characters that can be nearly
indistinguishable from each other. MonKeys solve this long-standing problem through the creation of
unique, monkey-shaped avatars from a hash value based on a user's public key. These visual
representations of wallet addresses serve to identify users while protecting the privacy of the account
holders (Figure 8).
Figure 8: Your MonKey is unique! No two wallet addresses share the same MonKey!

Each Monkey has a unique combination of fur and eye colour, and can have additional accessories in
varying styles, such as hats, glasses, shirts, pants, mouth types, tail decorations, and more! The value
of the accessories is classified into 3 categories: basic, rare, and premium. The rarity ranges from 1/2
to 1/32 and 1/1024 Monkeys, respectively. There are hundreds of billions of possible MonKey
combinations. Consider that RGB color ranges from (0,0,0) to (255,255,255). Therefore, there are
256? = 16,777,216 color options. By only examining fur color and eye color generation we get
16,777,216? = 281,474,976,710,656 Monkey options. This is without even considering the 7 classes
of accessories and their corresponding coloring! For testing purposes, we’ve implemented a MonKey
generator right below (Figure 9). This generator allows you to experiment with MonKeys even
without having a real wallet address (even though creating one is recommended and only takes
seconds). You are welcome to try it for yourself, maybe you will be lucky and draw a premium
accessory!

Figure 9: MonKey Generator

 
 

 

Randomize

 
 

4A. CAMO BANANO - Private Coins on BANANO
using ECDH

A well known cryptographic challenged

 
  

 

that of privacy: preyention of unauthorized extraction of

information from communications 0 re her companies nor individuals want

   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  

all of their information being public | way it can be read without any
restrictions by governments, family ompetitors. Serving as
BANANO's privacy layer, CAMO @

seed. To share it securely they put it int

fe 1S a way for two people to share a
ssentially it!

Of note, CAMO BANANO Phase | as di
confidential transactions, but not for rea

tently being available allows for
‘development will include the
requirement of adding a new block type ocol and subsequently allow for sum-

of-squares private transactions.

 
 

Figure 10: CAMO BANANO graphic.

The current CAMO solution currently consists of three layers of technology:
A) Blockchain steganography
B) Storing ECDH public key in the blockchain

C) Private reversible transactions using shared seeds
Private irreversible transactions using shared public keys

4.1. Blockchain Stenography and ECDH

Each BANANO wallet houses multiple addresses and is accessed using a seed. It is assumed that both
party A (Alice) and B (Bob) in the transaction have an existing seed for an existing wallet. The main
purpose of this system is to send funds from Alice's wallet to one of the wallets owned by Bob,
knowing only Bobs seed and its first enclosed wallet. By splitting transactions of funds between
multiple wallets under a single seed each party is in control of the funds but do not show up on a rich
list.

4.2. A Private Reversible Transaction

1- Assume Part A (Alice) and B (Bob) have an existing seed and wallet.

2- Alice and Bob achieve a shared secret using Elliptic-curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) [4].

3- Alice and Bob must agree on a third neutral location to use to mix the funds and obfuscate records
of their transactions to any eavesdropper (Eve).

4- Alice sends three transactions to herself to store the seed of a third party on the blockchain. To do
this, she leverages the fact the BANANO balance field has a precision of 29 places after the decimal
point, i.c. you can store 11 bytes of data in the balance field 2. Alice splits the 32 byte public key into
three chunks of 11, 11, and 10 bytes and sends three transactions to herself encoding these bytes in
the balance field.

5- Bob looks through Alice's transactions historv and finds three where the representative is the hash
~~ -- ee - oO --- - were wes ype ~ -- - - ~ ep eee wee ee - ~

of the shared secret. Bob combines theses to obtain the seed Alice hid in the blockchain. This seed is
now neutral to both participating parties, and only both parties have access to it. At this point, if Alice
sends funds to this neutral location the transaction can be considered reversible.

6- Alice sends funds to the first N addresses contained in the neutral seed, starting at the zeroth
address. She uses multiple transactions where the total number N is determined by the total amount of
funds to be sent. In the Camo Phase | release this is orders of 10 BANANO: 10, 100, 1000 .... In
production it is intended to be split according to how transactions in the blockchain look at that point
in time.

7- Bob moves funds from each used address in the neutral seed to N separate addresses under a seed
in his control. To Eve, it appears Alice simply sent out many random low payments, which then each

went onto a second address. However, if Bob consolidated into his wallet at only its zeroth address,
Eve could then collapse the graph and see all the transactions went from Alice to Bob.

4.3. A Private Irreversible Transaction

Using the same method as reversible transactions, a new wallet is created instead of a new seed. The
new wallet is controlled by only one party, so transactions are not reversible. The new wallet is stored
on the blockchain in almost the same way as the reversible seed. The only difference is that the
representative is set to the hash of the hashed shared secret and the public key, to distinguish it from
the reversible transaction.
  

   

@ in the future). Apart had a —_ ue distinction fro

other cryptocurrency projects from
faucet games. You heard it right, we td t just some boring faucets, we have faucet games! E
legendary BANANO Runner game (Figure 11) with its first round in April 2018 was a huge success

and an unprecedented form of airdropping a new cryptocurrency to its community.

ive

5. vA...
md. is freely distribut games, contests, giveaways, and air f
bog and Doge hold ted with aes via aird

sica

nning: Free coin distribution through i in

 
 

Figure 11: A video from BANANO Runner - we’ll never forget this legendary BANANO faucet game!

One of the highest aims of the ongoing free distribution of BANANO always was (and still is) to
keep the distribution fair. Unfortunately, there have been attempts to bot and exploit BANANO faucet
games from the very beginning. That’s one of the reasons why BANANO Runner sadly had to be

discontinued after 5 highly successful rounds with thousands of participants.

In addition to rains and tips at our discord server and lots of tips also through tipbots at our

subreddit, twitter account and telegram groups (Figure 12), lots of often innovative events have

been running in order to continue the free and fair ongoing distribution, including various contests &

giveaways focusing on fun and creativity. Of note, both official and unofficial contests and games are

an integral part of the BANANO ecosystem.

BananoBot++ @

V1.4}
deposit

96 BANANO by Randomizer. You
can mute tip notif ons from this person
using .mute 327379434183196673

Wie ae-]

RI-14 16)
lor] a mL aats) STE Le 7et3kzrrls4yoizd9mx/7nst
fel olecrete)

BananoBot++ @6m
ransaction has bee eT aoa aS
yu a link to the block expl

n I've broadcasted

fimo neMal-

 

address

Your deposit address is :

ban_lzddprdu564x7bmrdpaz8rowpfei9bnmhuinzwzfur
jprlyn3yxufds4a8ik

balance

Your balance is :

35135.00 BANANO

Send 20000
ban_3h7s8gixffadfwzdce4s8tu47q/fenxr4xooderfxkd86
7sbrly9xmypm4qee

Successfully sent 20000 BANANO to
ban_3h/s8gixffadfwzdc4s8tu4/q/fenxr4xooderfxkd86
Wale Aye) Canhy sage ce(=1-4

You can view this transaction on

send 100
ban_lmemelyacdi5iu69wcu7et3kzrrls4yoizd9mx7nst
qplc9e69979mjd4fun
ban_136urkyoa658emcreyh6a7
qtgmg5y8c86razmwuugut6om
djinw15pwxaupo

Available: 0.0 BANANO

ai) Pending: 1.0 BANANO

You have successfully
withdrawn 1.0 banano! You can
check the transaction at

 

Figure 12: BANANO Tipbot wallet overview.

Finally, several new faucets and faucet games have been developed, tested, and are meanwhile
running permanently or intermittently! Here’s a brief, incomplete insight about some current faucets
at the time of writing. Please make sure to visit our website at banano.cc for an updated overview.

10
5.1. Black Monkey

With the name being a reference to the term of the “black sheep”, the Black Monkey faucet game
revolves around finding the odd Monkey out of 6 Monkeys. Each MonKey will have some
combination of hat, glasses, smile, skin color, clothing, shoes, and accessories. The goal is to identify
the one Monkey being different, while the other 5 Monkeys have absolutely identical items of that
type (Figure 13).

Visit blackmonkey.banano.cc to play.

=) feleol at Lela coy]

Game will start March 12, 9AM UTC

TTT PUR eA POO TAP OR REN ad uel ie litew era ure alone eee au ureter leh wala)
Trace ID: 2518503058682094373

§ Player profile / statistics ¥

ban_3palm3g79ilh7uijugndjeytpmqbsg6hc19zm8m7 foqygwosimmcqmab91hh

Level: 6

Score: 68 (Rank: 13) Total Black Monkey games played: 3
Hours played: 0.2 Total hours played: 0.6

Ol eke lr msle) Total correct answers: 176

LOT remit aee)

Longest no-errors series: 23 (Rank: |) Best no-errors series: 23

 

5.2. Meme Faucet

The BANANO Meme Faucet consists of writing and verifying descriptions of various memes or
other images. When you submit a description, it will be evaluated and compared to the relative
picture by another user, who will act as both faucet-user and “inspector” (Figure 14).

Visit memefaucet.banano.cc to play.
e Banano meme faucet Banano Website Banano Discord How to play

Price table

1000 BAN = $1.458
‘Your balance: $0.2644
Sell Banano
How fo sell Banano

Describe the picture that you can see. Characterize objects, persons,
background, shapes as detailed as possible. Please write the description in the
following language: espafiol, castellano.

 

Vegetacién de colores variogintos y silvestres son el recibimiento de esta
hermosa fotografia, en la que dos globos aerostaticos de miltiples colores
estén enprendiendo 1 vuelo.

 

Figure 14: A screenshotifromcBANANO Meme Faucet.

Coot-iown fime unti next question’ 0 seconds,

 

5.3. Crane Faucet

The crane faucet is run 24/7 and consists of solving captchas and various other “minigames” such as
“Monkey Match’ or ‘Catch the Monkey’ (Figure 15).
Visit faucet.banano.coranos.io to play.

 

* a Sa ae ae a], *

Welcome to the Banano Crane Faucet!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

5.4. BANANO Mining

It’s rarely mentioned that some fresh cryptocurrencies like BANANO (and it’s father NANO) do not
require mining and therefore are highly innovative examples for ecologically “green”
cryptocurrencies. However, in this case we purposefully branded our new Folding@Home faucet as
“BANANO Miner’ (Figure 16). This naming choice was made as a way of stating that

cryptocurrency mining is not without alternatives!

 

BANANO
MINER

 

Figure 16: BANANO Miner - Contribute to Medical Research while earning BANANO!

There are 2 separate faucet projects in this category, BANANO Powerplant and the BANANO
Miner Faucet.

BANANO Powerplant is a CPU mining pool faucet that mines a range of different altcoins and pays
out with BANANO. The payments are subsidized by BANANO, so the rates are better than mining
the altcoins directly.

Visit powerplant.banano.cc to try it out.

BANANO Miner is not really a miner. Instead of running arbitrary calculations to “mine” a
cryptocurrency, your computer runs protein folding simulations through Folding@Home, which
helps researchers fight Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, Cancer, Alzheimer’s and many more genetic
diseases, and infectious diseases. Then, we send BANANO to your wallet based on the size of your
computational contribution (Figure 17).

Visit bananominer.com to try it out.

 

Figure 17: Fight diseases with computational power while earning BANANO!

12
Visit MonkeyTalks.cc

or not, | don’t care.

message you'll need topes all fee in BANANO. Second, it’s self-sustaining since your payment
in turn refills the fq ly, it's on-chain because any message sent through Monkey Talks

 

it’s engraved into the transaction’s RAW: this means that all of the messages are publicly visible and
basically immutable because they were written into the BANANO blockchain. Monkey Talks is
basically a proof-of-concept website that combines a faucet giving out free BANANO with an actual
application BANANO can be used for. There’s a clear incentive to visit the site to claim the faucet,
which in turn incentivizes users to pay BANANO for a message many people will see. To make this
more interesting, you can also choose to pay a little more to highlight your message in a different
color.

Visit monkeytalks.ce to try it out.

y ly LSA Lt

Bol ata ett ta

hppy bday bnn =

 

Scan the OR code with Kalium
and send 25.2173~ Banano to

Peele) pms aa ato

Py Pimp My Message

a
welcome tomt — 11:00 AM, Mon, 4/01/2019
-

dit it & strt again

6 2019 tuesday &

Figure 18: Monkeytalks - A self-sustaining BANANO faucet including on-chain messaging!

 

5.6. Inflation versus Deflation

While its ongoing free and fair distribution program surely resembles one of the biggest strengths of
BANANO and has led to a rapidly growing community, it also logically leads to inflation. That’s why
the BANANO team in July 2019 announced a monthly “Buy-Back and Burn’ scheme (article). In
brief, the BANANO team uses earnings from faucet monetization (mainly mined coins and income
from advertisements) to buy back BANANO from exchanges and subsequently sends all bought
BANANDO to a burn address, making respective coins ultimately inaccessible. The overall aim of this
approach is to stabilize markets especially during the ongoing free distribution phase (Figure 19).
Coin burns unrelated to this program have occurred, and may happen again in the future.

 
 

Figure 19: BANANO has a ‘Buy-Back and Burn’ program.

13
   
  
 
     
  

* BANANO (BA ' offersiiteless, i
green transactions. @ utilizes ir Graph ed bl

it and ecologically
ettuce™

6. Summary a . , ‘ {

  

O did no ICO what

* BANANO was forked in April 20 ver, instead all

     
 

     
 

    
    

  

coins were and are distributed throug! air distribution pro , through
Airdrops, Faucet Games and other e is also experi ing with feature
additions such as a privacy layer in sagin onkeyfalks) and more.
* In the context of distribution is usifig theif@pfrastructure with easy-to-

     
   

use mobile wallets (Kaliun social med to onboard normies

and crypto-noobs who

  

p
te, the

d a gamiiffication

   
 

cy is. Of here is to make the

 
 
    

start with crypto as eg roach to get new

users started witho em to le crypi@€urrencies ina

responsible way.
¢ At the time of writing, BANANO is already heavily used in tens of thousands of daily on-chain
transactions for tipping and payment within our community and on several third-party platforms.

¢ The main hub where the BANANO community resides and collaborates is our Discord server.
Here you'll find BANANO constantly flying around between the community members. We
recommend an expedition to the Jungle channel where it frequently rains BANANO on all active
Monkeys. Please join us there, everyone is welcome! We are genuinely a very open project, so if you
have a great faucet idea or want to contribute otherwise, chat to us! We’re looking forward to your

visit!

* If you can't wait to get your paws on some juicy, yellow BANANO, we are listed on several
exchanges already (overview at Coingecko).

7. Acknowledgements

The authors of this yellowpaper would like to warmly thank all members of the BANANO
community for their valuable contributions to the BANANO ecosphere.

8. References
[1] S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf. 2008.
[2] S. D. Lerner, DagCoin Draft. SEPTEMBER 2015.

[3] C. LeMahieu, Nano: A Feeless Distributed Cryptocurrency Network.
https://nano.org/en/whitepaper. Accessed: 2018-10-21.

[4] D. Whiteld, New Directions in Cryptography. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. IT-
22, NO 6, NOVEMBER 1976.

14
