 

et tetera

Boxer Inu
WHITE PAPER
KEY FEATURES

01. Auto liquidity feature
02. RFI Mechanics

03. Deflationary Mechanics
04. Charity/Donations

O5 Use Cases

06. Tax Distribution
07. Tokenomics

08. Distribution
09. Presale

10. Roadmap
11. Audited by Techrate

boo ACE CIa TE
INTRODUCTION

If we take a closer look at blockchain, the crypto market, the famous
decentralized finance (DeFi) protocols: we are actually seeing FIAT being
replaced with crypto and the large steps taken towards the development of a
permissionless, transparent, immutable, secure, and fully autonomous global
digital economy. This development will allow us to differentiate between the
virtual and physical, FIAT currency and digital currency, and real-world use
cases and dapps. This development will pave the way towards a digital
economy that will overcome financial, technological, and societal problems.

Dogecoin was originally created at least in part as a lighthearted joke for
crypto enthusiasts and took its name from a once-popular meme. Despite this
unusual origin story, it has exploded in popularity in 2021, becoming the fifth-
largest cryptocurrency by market cap. Today Dogecoin Is no joke, having
exploded in value and gained more than 5,000% in 2021. Among its boosters
is Tesla CEO Elon Musk, who called Dogecoin his favorite cryptocurrency. Musk
also named Dogecoin the “people's crypto,” and promised to plant a physical
Dogecoin token on the moon. The original point of Dogecoin might have
been to just have fun, but for investors, having fun means making money.

Following its success and a little before that, a lot of tokens launched on the
Ethereum and the Binance Smart Chain, all promising to rebuild financial
services and make them available to anyone. These tokens created a new era
in the history of Blockchain creating a whole community of millions with the
same interests in similar meme coins and shitcoins projects.

As Ethereum gas fees were high and there was an alternative to Ethereum
available with the same features which used the Ethereum Virtual Machine
(EVM), meme coins started to launch on the Binance Smart Chain (BSC),
making BSC a powerful medium for investment and transactions as it allowed
transactions to be done immediately with lower costs.

Ms Ay CUm Le Page | 03
However, meme coins and shit coins have taken this development for granted
and developers and project owners are launching actual shitty projects with
zero use Cases and zero utility and getting too much traction. We think
projects should not be invested in until they have a lot of use cases and
applications of their tokens. This is why we are launching Boxer Inu, a meme
coin with the actual use case and a catchy and trendy name.

Boxer Inu will be a deflationary, auto-liquidity generating, static rewarding
token on the Binance Smart Chain. Apart from this Boxer Inu will also have the
donation function in its contract through which 2% fees will be cut and sent
for important causes.

Unlike other meme tokens out there that serve only one purpose; pump and
dump, Boxer Inu has actual use cases and applications for its utility token
{O38

Some utilities include an NFT Marketplace, a decentralized exchange, Boxer
Lottery, and a crypto gaming platform that will all launch as soon as in 3
months at different time intervals. After this comes a launchpad platform that

will compete with platforms like DxSale and BSCPad.

All these features are mentioned on the roadmap and under development. As
you will see as you read through this White Paper

Boxer Inu also has a perfect tokenomics and token distribution model that
aims to take Boxer to the moon like its predecessors with the same Inu name

DISCLAIMER: DYOR

Moo) ADC a TT Pera ey.
Automatic Liquidity Generation Mechanism

In many DeFi projects, we have seen a lot of investors jump in and buy a large
number of assets, causing a huge uproar, a lot of pumps that we all like to see.
And once the graph becomes more vertical rather than horizontal (starts
going up), an increasing number of common traders also start investing too.
We've all been there and seeing a colorful graph that is just heading up, it can
be pretty damn hard not to jump in. However, almost always, the token suffers
an impending collapse of the price.

Once the bandwagons are full and the big holders sell, the graph sees a
downward plunge and the common trader suffers a great loss.

Now, what is the reason behind such a big loss to price?

You know how liquidity pools store a pair of assets, the token, and another
currency (mostly BNB on BSC). When the pool loses a lot of BNB, the price of
the other token shoots down. This causes a loss of value and those scary
graphs we talked about.

This effect increases in a smaller liquidity pool and decreases as the liquidity
pool increases in both tokens. This is the reason why we have integrated an
automatic liquidity generating function that not only solves the high price
variation problem but also strengthens Boxer Inu’s future.

The Automatic Liquidity Generation feature within $BOXER’s smart contract is
recently very popular, yet very innovative core module that the protocol has
implemented. It involves a feature that, on every transaction, causes a certain
percentage of the trade's value to automatically generate liquidity in
PancakeSwap liquidity pools.

Ms Ay CUm Le Tem Os
This mechanism benefits in two distinct ways: first, the constant supply of
liquidity into the pool solidifies its future as the removal of tokens from that
pool will not cause a huge variation to the price. Second, a specific percentage
of tax is cut on each transaction, this disincentivizes the user to sell as he will
receive a lesser value when he sells causing him to hold until a large increase
0

We have put a 3% fee that can be changed as the community demands, the
fee is split 50/50, half is swapped by the contract into BNB, while the other half
of the tokens are paired automatically with the previously mentioned BNB and
added to the liquidity pair on Pancake Swap.

RFI Mechanics

What is RFI? RFI also called Reflection or static rewards is a function that
causes a certain percentage of tax on each transaction to automatically be
sent to holders of the tokens.

Now here’s a better upside to holding $BOXER.

If you just hold $BOXER in your wallet you become eligible to receive more
tokens without any limit of holding period. The more you hold the more you
receive. The longer you hold onto it the more you can actually earn. This is
because 3% of transaction fees from trades and transfers of %BOXER will get
redistributed amongst the token holders.

As the token transactions per day increase so will the static reward amount
and hodlers/believers of the project and token can earn just by believing.

Static Rewards solve a range of problems. First, the size of the reward is
determined by the number of tokens traded. Second, each holder receives a
portion of each dump and pump's value through this process. Third, this
system allows token holders to retain their tokens to gain a higher value when
they sell them (they will have more tokens than they bought).

Ms Ay CUm Le Page | 06
As a result, each transaction is subject to 3% fees for static rewards, which are
immediately distributed to all holders based on their holding volume, all
without the need for farming or staking!

As users execute transactions, the number of tokens in your wallet will
continue to grow indefinitely. This successfully avoids impermanent loss, and
you are effectively compensated for simply holding $BOXER.

Deflationary Mechanics - Burning

Burning is a deflationary approach to control the supply of a token which
works by constantly removing assets from circulation. Burning of $BOXER will
be an automatic process that Boxer Inu’s devs have implemented by adding a
function that allows each transaction to cut a specific cut (1%) and sends this
amount of tokens to the burn address, effectively decreasing the supply
shown on explorers too.

Developers use deflationary burning mechanisms to increase the value of
tokens thereby avoiding inflation. Because of the way early DeFi platforms
distributed LP and reward tokens, they experienced inflationary issues.
Through this function, $BOXER’s supply will gradually delete a portion of the
tokens in circulation in order to decrease its supply.

Donation/Charity

Being a DeFi project, Boxer Inu aims to also give some attention towards
helping those in need with our protocol. While we, our investors, our holders
and the community are focusing on the longevity, growth and development of
the project, we also need to do some good for the world we live in. Therefore,
Boxer Inu’s mission is to open more and more ways through which donations
can be given for important causes while we do our transactions.

Ms Ay CUm Le Page | 07
To accomplish this, the team has integrated a function in $BOXER’s smart
contract that will allow 2% fee to be cut on each transaction and sent forward
to a charity wallet which will hold all funds. The community will be urged to
vote and give their opinion on the allocation of these funds for righteous
causes whether they be of helping the poor or needy, endangered animals,
combating climate change or any other reated matter.

Boxer Inu also has plans to hold crowdfunding schemes for larger causes. All
the funds will be sent to a charity wallet and when it has the right amount
raised, all contributions and donations will be made in a secure and
transparent way.

The charity wallet’s address will be shared by the team so that the community
can check through blockchain explorers where their donations go.

Use Cases. What's Next?

Boxer Inu differs from the rest of the meme crowd because it has a passionate
team working full time to develop a fully-fledged ecosystem of applications
surrounding the token. Our mission is to not only drive a marketing and
development campaign appealing to cryptocurrency asset traders for the
short term but also a suitable long-term plan for hodlers and serious long-
term crypto enthusiasts active in the crypto sphere.

Boxer protocol will offer a variety of cryptocurrency dapps all with the goal to
accelerate the adoption of our protocol and help play a leading role in
changing the way people conduct financial transactions. Dapps that will
accelerate the growing process:

1. Boxer NFT Marketplcae
2. Boxer DEX

3. Boxer Lottery

4. Boxer Crypto Gaming
5. Boxer Launchpad

Moo) ADC a TT era,
- An NFT Marketplace

A marketplace for all kinds of digital assets and crypto collectibles. Users
can trade, buy, sell, auction, bid, and discover digital art and assets.
Content creators will be allowed to produce their own NFTs on the
blockchain using Boxer Inu’s NFT minting feature. There is no need for
content creators to have any programming knowledge to make collections
and NFTs.

Apart from this, Boxer will employ a bunch of artists and upload its own
content for sale to the public. We will create and sell NFTs and the money
generated from these activities will be donated to charities.

Users who are selling content or NFTs can sell an item for a fixed price,
create a declining price listing, or make an auction listing.

All kinds of content will be welcomed whether they are images, photos,
digital art, music files, 3d models, movies, concert hostings, books, or
Wile [tes

This provides artists complete control over their careers, allowing them to
achieve their goals without having to pay a large fee to larger agencies.
The Binance Smart Chain (BEP-20) utility token for this NFT marketplace
allows artists and producers can turn their ideas into NFTs, mixing music,
art, and gaming with collectible NFTs.

The Boxer Inu NFT marketplace will be powered by the Boxer Inu token

($BOXER) meaning that all transactions will be made through this token.
Each artist will be provided with BOXER tokens.

Ms Ay CUm Le Page | 08
Explore Create

bo AD 4 eomnees eT

CREATE, EXPLORE & COLLECT DIGITAL ART NFTS.

The New Creative
Economy.

feta olt ig 3D Model
Weekly Pick Collection
By Vertical Crypto CNET

~——s

a

Breer Today

 

 

 

  

Sc eS ard + 2a)

a 2c 5
% Lf [<S z 4. a Trym_ruud
Me we mei) Silt) Q

LIRONA Stargarden ICOnow Art Ln lolP)E Nay Bored Elon Trym_ruud

BD en Cy Pan Cea y reed} Ny

ee on 2

v

4

 

Hot Bids >

 

cin Cr sia als ee Crypter Weekly Pick (2.45 5NA Crypter Weekly Pick [2.4558] yn) sa atd
oa Pe oat Poe oat Pre oa tof
0) Highest Bid 0.01BNB — Newbid & eS CO: CO | Vee LOL | eee DCO |

Hot Collections >

 
- A Decentralized Exchange

Boxer Inu intends to launch a decentralized exchange, yield farming, and a
staking platform in the same application.

The DEX will be working on the Automated Market Maker (AMM)
algorithm much like Uniswap, PancakeSwap, and BakerySwap.

The DEX will be launched on the Binance Smart Chain and will introduce a
new era where meme coins will be launched as credible projects and
putting a stop to the disgraceful name people give to these protocols.

The Boxer Inu DEX will be much like PancakeSwap, the swapping protocol
Boxer Inu will be initially listed on. Boxer Inu’s DEX will allow users to add
liquidity to the protocol, earn Ip tokens for their contribution, and get
great rewards for providing liquidity.

 

= Mo \ ere a [sox | BOXER J connect | ©
. fl
Ce g a
a t ?\ a
i Ly
v err
Pos . Sec +
oa
ra :
\ a
eer PS
‘ \
+ = » + a
~ r a rn
‘Slippage Tolerance $
,
0000 , . ;

 

 

Ms Ay CUm Le Page | 10
TRANSACTION TAXES PERCENTAGES:

Total Tax fee: 10%

Breakdown:

 

 

 

 

Static Rewards nL
Automatic LP Generation Mechanism Ey
Donation/Charity ra
Auto Burn: bs

 

 

 

 

WALLET ADDRESSES

 

Dev Wallet 0xbb39c963850b27bba662d3a60f7c4137b7add018

 

 

 

 

Charity Wallet 0x972A239820b9028cD9197E35FfB1dA94B2aa86Df

 

Moo) ADC a TT Page | 11
TOKENOMICS & DISTRIBUTION

TOKENOMICS

Token Name: Ticker: Decimals:
Boxer Inu BOXER ]

Total Supply: Supply Model:
1,000,000,000,000,000 (1 Quadrillion) Deflationary
Chain: Class:

Binance Smart Chain Ua Acre laa

Black Hole Address:

0x000000000000000000000000000000000000dEaD

TOKEN DISTRIBUTION

Public Sale:
50%

Listings & Liquidity:
27%

ei sass
ato

Team & Dev Wallet:

DxSale Platform Fee
01%

 

TOKEN SALE

Presale is on DxSale to allow contributors and investors to feel safe

Hard Cap: Soft Cap: Personal Max: Personal Min:
3000 BNB 2000 BNB 5 BNB 0.01 BNB

Moo) ADC a TT Page | 12
THE ROADMAP

The development and marketing teams at $BOXER are currently focusing on
the key activities that are needed for hyper-growth. The following is a high-
level roadmap that can change as new directions are proposed by the Boxer

Inu community:

Q3 2021 —O

CoinMarketCap & CoinGecko Listing =
More Exchange Listing =

New Partnerships =

Boxer Decentralized Exchange (DEX) =
Start of Development: Boxer Launchpad =
Boxer Lottery =

Boxer Crypto Gaming =

bos MTom TT

 

(Omen

Q2 2021

= Concept Creation

= Launch of white Paper
= Huge Marketing Efforts
= Launch of public sale

= Listing and Launch

Q4 2021

= Huge Marketing Push
= Boxer Mobile App

= Boxer LaunchPad

= Boxer Lending/Borrowing Portal
= Boxer NFT Marketplace

Page | 13
AUDITED BY TECHRATE

TechRate was commissioned by Boxer Inu to perform an audit of Boxer
Inu's token smart contract. The link to the contact is given below:

https://bscscan.com/
token/0x192E9321b6244D204D4301AfA507EB29CA84D9ef

The purpose of the audit was to achieve the following:

1. Ensure that the smart contract functions as intended.

2. Identify potential security issues with the smart contract.

Link to Audit Report:
http See SHRORIU SMSIn eCcln NE CT COTM La

Audits/blob/main/Boxerlnu%20Full%20Smart
%20Contract%20Security%20Audit.pdf

bos MTom TT Page | 14
DISCLAIMER

- All of the information contained in this White Paper andon = _
. the website (boxerinu.finance) is provided solely for - ——
-edug¢ational purposes and should pot be construed as financial *
advice. Purchasing or trading cryptocurrencies/digital assets is
fraught with danger and uncertainty. Viewers of this White
a z-] eL-1meJalell ie) never put more money into cryptocurrency than
they can afford to lose. Before investing in this or any other
cryptocurrency project, the reader should always seek expert
investment advice.

Learn More & Get Involved

WAelessti kee https://boxerinu.finance
Twitter: https://twitter.com/BoxerlnuFinance
Teleg ram: t.me/BoxerlnuOfficial

C https://exchange.pancakeswap.finance/#/swap?output
PancakeSwap: eno : eae

Currency=0x192E9321b6244D204D4301AfA507EB29CA84D9ef

Charts: https://poocoin.app/tokens/0x192E932
CLES 1b6244D204D4301 AfA507EB29CA84D9ef

Let Boxer Inu
