 

 

 

 

 

® SHIBSC Lightpaper Olea hal

NFT Games
and Blockchain Toolbox

 

admin@shibsc.com
® SHIBSC Lightpaper

64 NFT opens the portal between the real world and the crypto world...
Card games are evolving to a brand-new dimension via blockchain...

Imagine you do Yield Farming like playing games...

  
 
  

You can play NFT Games with these NFT cards
and make Huge Profits.

Want to play to make a fortune?

shiobsc.com
® SHIBSC Lightpaper

Here Comes the SHIBSC!

In order to improve the BSC ecosystem and facilitate users to better use the BSC network,

SHIBSC has developed a blockchain toolbox product. In addition to the gadgets that have

been announced, we also have big tools for business users, such as oracle and a lot.

, 4

shibsc.com admin@shiosc.com

 
@® SHIBSC Lightpaper

How SHIBSC works?

1 As autility token, users will pay with SHIBSC for the services provided in the blockchain toolbox.

6% of paid tokens will be burnt in each transaction.

2 6% of each transaction will be burnt for deflation, and 3% of each transaction will be provided to Liquidity Pool,

the other 3% will be allocated to all token holders’ addresses proportionally.

3 Deflation and RFI mechanisms provide huge incentives for SHIBSC holders.
More products coming online, more users and more tokens burnt by the transaction tax. Value of SHIBSC tokens

will increase and better liquidity is provided to the pool.

shibsc.com admin@shiosc.com
® SHIBSC Lightpaper

STATS of SHIBSC

Holders
Twitter Followers

Telegram Members

CoinMarketCap Likes

Distribution

Burned

Liquidity

shiobsc.com

34,023

100.4k

CM ss)

Niet sro

Initial

Current

70.18%

Pa Pas

Liquidity 29.82%
(Initial 33%)

   
   

Distribution

Burned 70.18%
(Initial 67%)

admin@shibsc.com
® SHIBSC Lightpaper

® SHIBSC has a maximum supply of one quadrillion and
more than 70% of the tokens have already been burnt. It has
no pre-mining, no private or public sale, and the liquidity

pool is locked permanently.

 

shibsc.com admin@shibsc.com
@® SHIBSC Lightpaper

NFT Marketplace is essential while NFT games are becoming

more and more popular.

® SHIBSC provides both NFT games and NFT marketplace. Soe

 

 

 

While enjoying the NFT games, players can earn SHIBSC tokens and NFT carasagnicn can be a / A]
traded in our NFT marketplace.

 
 

shiobsc.com
@® SHIBSC Lightpaper

@® LUCKY PET

https://shibsc.com/#/game

@ bs | a. on NY 4 4 ie

Lucky Pet, the first SHIBSC NFT game was already online since May 20th.

 

It’s a very cool game waiting to be explored.

Players can buy their favorite NFT cards in each lottery.

There is no limit to the type and number of NFT cards purchased. Duration of each lottery is 24
hours. All SHIBSC tokens that used to purchase the NFT cards will be put into the lottery pool.

When the lottery is done, the winning NFT card type will be announced. All the winners holding
this particular type of NFT card will share 30% of the prize pool proportionally.

The rest of the 70% are divided into two portions: the first is burned, the second will be kept in
the prize pool to be collected in the next draw.

shibsc.com admin@shiosc.com
@® SHIBSC Lightpaper

Blockchain Tools

Free LP Value Query | Token Generator Token MultiTransfer Cross-chain Oracle More Tools Coming Soon...
co LP PRICE CHECKING

» https://shibsc.com/#/toolbox/lpPriceChecking ae LP PRICE CHECKING cr Ne

The first blockchain tool of SHIBSC is LP Value Query. When users provide a voces ns
PNT] + Stare

a pair of LP tokens into the mining pool, the value of these LP tokens is | © ee ©
dynamically changing with potential impermanent loss. SHIBSC ToolBox a PCC Aina ee
helps users calculate the value of these LP tokens, which is very valuable G=n
for miners.
When you stake a bunch of LP tokens in a DeFi mining pool and have no seat ae Be er LE ohare S428 8
idea how much the LP tokens are worth over time, SHIBSC ToolBox can —e NS EE
help you calculate the value of your LP token in US dollars. eee = aerate aati

BUSD Price: 0 =| 0b] bee ee Bs ear
Tha ti tra eo ie a ree be ee cde pee a en ee

Input the two Token Contract addresses for your LP token Pair and the iach

corresponding number of LP tokens you have, then click ‘Confirm’. Boom,

the result will show in a flash!

shiobsc.com

admin@shibsc.com
® SHIBSC Lightpaper

Free LP Value Query | Token Generator Token MultiTransfer Cross-chain Oracle More Tools Coming Soon...

CREAT TOKEN

https://shibsc.com/#/toolbox/createToken

 

The one-click token generator allows users to launch their own
tokens within just a few seconds by following the steps below:

1. Open ToolBox page and click “Create Token”

2. Click “Set as initial holder” and your own contract address will
automatically be generated

3. Input the symbol of your token under “Token Symbol”

4. Input the name of your token under “Token Name”

5. Input the total supply of your token under “Total Supply (exclude 18
decimals)”

6. Then choose the payment method (SHIBSC or BNB), only few transaction
fee needed

7. Click “Confirm Creation” and your own token will be launched

shiobsc.com

oo CREATE TOKEN Eyer

Connected address: 0x8 1003d3ec328010EbF 1Ea41148DBDD22548fC36E tae wii maleic ag

Initial Holder Address Teken Symbol

Bee) am ats Total Supply (exclude 18 decimals)

ae NL 0 SHIBSC

 

Cost: 0 SHIBSC

Approve SHIBSC

By using this project, everyone can easily launch their own tokens.

(Please do NOT use these tokens for any financial purpose)

admin@shibsc.com
® SHIBSC Lightpaper

| Free LP Value Query | Token Generator

   

C TOKEN MULTITRANSFER(BET A)
https://shibsc.com/#/toolbox/tokenMultiSender

Token MultiTransfer - The most cost-effective tool for bulk token

Cointool

Service Charge 0.04 BNB per operation

Minimum gas fee needed for each transfer,
Fee and one transaction may include hundreds
oy UE laSK-16os

When the network is congested, some
transactions may fail. The successful and

Deploymen
Spain: failed transactions are mixed up, making it
difficult and time-consuming to track.
Customized Gas fee is predefined and cannot be
adjusted, which may lead to transaction
Gas Fee

failure if the network is congested.

shiobsc.com

Ue Un acs

SHIBSC

Free

Consolidate hundreds of transfers into one
transaction, the minimum gas fee is reduced
to one instead of hundreds, resulting in
significant cost reduction.

Success or failure for all the transfers in one
transaction, which is time-saving for decision
making.

Gas fee can be customized according to the
network congestion condition

Cross-chain Oracle

More Tools Coming Soon...

G TOKEN MULTI-SENDER cyte

 

Select Token to send

Paras S

mere le CL me ECC i mete aatag lp PU wee a

ek ia ee aL Te Be
er ie uae we Dit ea ea Dee Be eae
PAB On ar a UA Uni nie i |

eC TEP ge Ow ee ie ee Gee a
Pee a RE bi Be le eo PAUL Be 4)
rato el a ee Reece em E pee Le Pe ieee
UE Spood

a
Yee eT oem | Medium re
cee

iter els tee Ls oor ety ak 0 SHIBSC
Wi gy teen ns o Balance: 292,813,243, 792.6218 SHiesc
eee a
dmin@shib mM
fs INGUSNIDSC.CO
@® SHIBSC Lightpaper

Free LP Value Query Token Generator Token MultiTransfer Cross-chain Oracle More Tools Coming Soon...

DC BRIDGE ORACLE

At the moment, most popular projects on the Binance Smart Chain, such as PancakeBunny and Merlin Labs do not have a good quality oracle with a
secure data feed, which results in frequent price attacks. With many years of DeFi development experience, our team analyzed these attacks care-

fully, and designed a secure and highly efficient Oracle protocol, DC Bridge Oracle. It provides a solid infrastructure for DeFi development and cre-
ates a safer and more reliable ecosystem.

DC Bridge Oracle is the next-generation Cross-chain Oracle Protocol, which aims to build a data bridge between DEX and CEX safely and efficiently.

It feeds data to the Smart Chain from Centralized exchanges, providing fundamental facilities and systems for DeFi dApps.

Advantages
- Custom Oracle compression algorithm running on the chain
- High-performance data caching service
- Oracle node fusion middleware
- Information from reliable multi-sources.

- Cross-chain price feed in parallel with DEX price feed.

shibsc.com admin@shibsc.com
@® SHIBSC Lightpaper

| Free LP Value Query | One-click Token Launch Bulk Token Transfer Cross-chain Oracle More Tools Coming Soon...

Design details
The design of DC Bridge is divided into three parts.

1. On-chain smart contracts

DC Bridge Smart Contract can be deployed on a high-performance blockchain. The main functions include request processing and response
calculation result verification, node application and token staking, and a gas fee system. The on-chain contracts also provide a set of easy-to-use
interfaces for all DeFi dApps.

2. Relayer Node System
A P2P distributed network that runs independently by external users and is composed of an API that uses Core Governance Protocol. The API
mainly includes the following modules: Block-Watcher, Tx-Relayer, CEX-Watcher, Verifiable Random Number Engine, Request Handler, and node

consensus module.
3. High-performance data caching system

Combining efficient data compression algorithms with multi-level data caching structures, and middleware for data communication protocols, it
monitors and caches multi-chain DEX and CEX data in real-time, and updates the price feed data when there is a pre-defined price difference.

shibsc.com admin@shiosc.com
© SHIBSC Lightpaper Roadmap

Main theme of SHIBSC is

NFT games + blockchain toolbox

First NFT game, Lucky Pet (online)

   

PET NFT Card

ime)
launched

LP Value Query (online)
One-Click Token Generator (online)

Token MultiTransfer (online) Listing on
Pancake ro

 

rane Pd

DeFi Monitoring (New Mining Pool Minitoring, online)

     

NFT marketplace (coming soon)

2021.94

6 3 6 6 2021.05 4021.06 2021.07 2021.93 Te
One-Click Mining Pool Launch (coming soon)

Price Bot (coming soon) Panes

CE is 2

Market Data Analytics and Price Charts (coming soon)
10. Smart Pool (coming soon)

shibsc.com admin@shiosc.com
