Open in app Oot

CAT Token

(Fotow ) 16 Followers About

Meow world.

‘@ CAT Token Apr25 - 6 minread
Open inapp Oot

 

CAT Token

Welcome to the world of Cat Token. Cat Token is a cryptocurrency issued on the
Ethereum blockchain in August 2020, for all the cat lovers of the world. Over the past
nine months, our community has grown to thousands of #catizens! This is our first foray
into Medium and we hope this article will make you familiar with our $CAT Token and

join our clowder (which is what you call a group of cats... see, I bet you didn’t know
that!)

Why CAT Token
Open inapp Oot

our product— from FIAT currency to Ethereum to Cat Token, value is transferred across
digital platforms. By growing our community, we plan for Cat Token to expand in its
reach to you and our beneficiaries in charities. We envision new ways to grow digital
asset models such as NFTs, to benefit our users, cats and other animals, charities, and
conservation organizations. We are here to stay as long as there is love for cats in the

world!

In short CAT Token stands for community, fun, memes and comics, creativity in the

crypto space, NFTs and art, and conservation/animal welfare.

Who is Mooncat

Ni (elelelelele)
Ook
TOLD YA!
CRYPTO TO
DA MOON

 

Follow our mascot Mooncat at twitter.com/mooncatcrypto
Open inapp Oot

and back, secretly wants to take over the earth but is probably unaware he may be too
little to do so, is sometimes elated, sometimes moody, sometimes hungover, takes
marching orders from his ancestors — the wildcats, but is serious about conservation
and animal welfare. Check out our Mooncat comics on Twitter, which we publish
occasionally. You can create a Mooncat story and make one too, and we will put it on

Twitter!

Tokenomics

Cat Token has limited supply with no pre-mined tokens. Deflationary tokens such as
Bitcoin and Hoge Finance reward early adopters and speculators. Inflationary tokens
such as dogecoin are designed to reward miners, and result in diluting the holdings of
investors. Cat Token aims to reward long-term hodlers, who want to have ownership in a
community striving to advance the welfare of cats, and conservation, and meanwhile

have their own token assets appreciate.

CAT TOKEN DISTRIBUTION
15,000,000 TOTAL

Farming Pools (Ended),
4,500,000

  
  

Marketing, 1,500,000 oo
Liquidity, 5,000,000

Burn Address, 4,000,500

CAT Token Distribution — August 2020

Our CAT Token was minted with 15,000,000 CAT. Shortly after launch, to encourage
scarcity of the token and by community demand, we burned 4,000,500 tokens (27%).

Remaining tokens totaling ~ 11,000,000 CAT were split between our development team
Open inapp Oot

How we roll

CAT Token is entirely community driven. Which means YOU help decide our direction
and plan of action. Any community member can rise to become a community leader by
taking initiatives and responsibility. Our team is made up of such anonymous

community leaders and contributors.

From trading CAT Token on exchanges to exchanging ideas on telegram, trading NFTs,
and driving the project forward, we feel that you are the most important part of all of
this within our project. Your support and your contributions guide what we are creating.
We appreciate you in so many ways. Bring your artistic talent and tech skills to Cat

Token, join us on Twitter and Telegram. We look forward to sharing your cattitudes.

Where can | hold Cat Token?
Any Wallet that supports ERC-20 tokens will support CAT- for example Coinbase wallet,

Metamask, and Ecto.

Where can | buy Cat Token?

You can currently buy Cat Token on Uniswap, Bilaxy, and Crex24 exchanges. Make sure

the contract is the right one by verifying it on Etherscan. Avoid counterfeits and scams.

Is Bilaxy safe? Bilaxy Exchange is a reputable exchange for small-cap tokens. Our
members who had experience dealing with them find their trading fees and withdrawal
charges highly competitive. We have not experienced security related issues so far. You
can sign up Bilaxy exchange within a minute. Deposit your Ether into your Bilaxy
address and you can buy Cat Tokens via trading the CAT/ETH pair.

How to buy Cat Token from Uniswap? You can use a wallet that supports ERC-20
token, and the wallet must be able to interact with decentralized finance platforms.
Metamask is one example. You can use the “Swap” function in Uniswap to exchange
your Ether for Cat Token. Check out this video for easy instructions.

How can I keep my wallet safe? Never ever give your 12 words seed phrase to anyone,
as it gives complete access to your wallet. Do not click suspicious links. Cats Token
admins or team members will never ask for your personal data or for your tokens or for

money!
Open inapp Oot

computing energy required to process and validate transactions on the Ethereum
blockchain.

You could manually adjust the fee you pay for the transaction. But if the fee is too low
the miners can choose to ignore the transaction. As a result, you could wait for a long
time without having your transactions go through.

Why am I getting an error when trying to buy on Uniswap? It is likely due to
slippage. If you do not want to wait and you are transaction cost insensitive, click on the
gear button in the top right and set your slippage to 5%.

Is Cat Token on BSC? Not yet. Be careful of counterfeits and clones.

What are NFTs?
Anon-fungible token (NFT) is a special type of cryptographic token which represents

something unique. This contrasts with cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and many network
utility tokens, that are fungible in nature — one bitcoin can be exchanged equally for
another bitcoin. Non-fungible tokens are used to create verifiable digital scarcity, as well
as digital ownership, and the possibility of asset interoperability across multiple
platforms. NFTs are used in several specific applications that require unique digital items

like crypto art, digital collectible, and online gaming.

What is the Wildcats NFT Series

WILDCATS 2021

BY THE CAT TOKEN | Ga

The

 
Open in app Oot

the world.

CAT Token Wildcat NFTs

 

We released an updated whitepaper on Wildcats NFT Series recently. As our first
initiative, we are releasing a series of 40 NFTs, one for each of the wildcat species in
existence. The series will be exclusive, limited in number, and be both informative and

collectible.

60% of funds from sales will go directly to animal welfare or conservation organizations
accepting crypto, dedicated to the conservation and preservation of cat species and
habitat around the world. If we have many choices, the CAT token community can vote
on selecting the organizations from our list! We also invite orgs to pitch their cases to our
community or even collaborate with us to make these NFTs even more awesome. 20% of

the proceeds from Wildcats NFT sales will go to the CAT token team towards
Open inapp Oot

of the sales — 10% will go towards buying back a percentage of $CAT tokens.

Useful CAT Token links

 

NFT Whitepaper, Mooncat Twitter (Mascot of CAT Token)

Official NFT Links — Bakeryswap, Ghostmarket

Disclaimer

The CAT token which you are reading about is a social experiment in the DeFi industry.
What this means is that you should complete research and trading decisions on your
own. CAT token does not provide financial, legal or other advice. All information
provided here about CAT token is for the CAT token community and the charities who
may benefit from donations made by the development team. Please do not overextend
yourself when becoming involved in this project financially or otherwise. No one from
the CAT token team will ever recommend buying or selling CAT Token for any purpose,
or ask you for money. Our team would probably tell you to pet or adopt a cat or get one

of those large cat house tree things that will be too big for your living room.

Cattoken Nft Dogecoin Memes Cryptocurrency
Open in app Oot
