Catecoin Moved to New Contract Please Update New Contract in your Wallet.

Real Meme Coin

Catecoin is the one and only DeFi Meme platform

Ch Launch App - Beta

(Set slippage to 8%)

‘oe

a

Features
Catecoin Moved to New Contract Please Update New Contract in your Wallet.
Catecoin for Creators

We launched Catecoin with the intention to add real value to
the meme world. Catecoin will allow meme creators to create
and earn with their memes in a Decentralised way.

 

Content Farming

e We reserved 35% CATE to content farming where tokens are
given to content creator whose content is approved and
receive minimum 100 likes and 10 comments.

¢ Each like and comment by new addresses will give 0.1 Coin to
the user and 0.1 coin to creator.

e Allusers who hold min 100k coin can post and user with 10k

Select Language | V. CATE can like and comment.

¢ Allapproved memes will be eligible for NFT minting and
purchaser will get all rewards from that memes.

Hold and Earn

Earn By Holding Catecoin or Earn 1% of every Transaction
Done in Catecoin. You can earn with every Transaction.
Catecoin Moved to New Contract Please Update New Contract in your Wallet.

What is Catecoin

 

 

What is Catecoin? Difference between Catecoin and Dogecoin

 

Catecoin vs. Doge

Catecoin Doge
Supply 100,000,000,000,000 © Unlimited Supply
Hodl and Earn Hodler will earn 1% of Every Transaction 3 No Earning Option
Usage Defi Meme Platform © No Utility

Tokenomics

Name: Catecoin (CATE)

Distribution: 35% Ecosystem - 30% Liqudity - 15%
Exchange Listing - 10% Marketing - 10% Team and Future
Development

New Contract:

 
Catecoin Moved to New Contract Please Update New Contract in your Wallet.

Supply: 100,000,000,000,000

Purpose: Meme Plaform, Dapps

How to buy Catecoin

1. Download Trust Wallet + MetaMask

Make an account, and set your recovery phase.
2. Purchase BNB on an Exchange

Then, withdraw the BNB over to Trust Wallet.

3. Continue on PancakeSwap

Copy the Catecoin Token Address below.

©

Frequently Asked Quesions

What is the Use Of Catecoin?

Catecoin is used in Meme Platform where meme creator will submit memes and get paid by users in catecoin, Whole system
will be decentralised.

How can I buy Catecoin?

What is the CATECOIN contract address?

In the news Partners
Catecoin Moved to New Contract Please Update New Contract in your Wallet.

yanoo: ce vowels
es e. =I 52
BSC “oer USTs!
| RSs)
BUSINESS
INSIDER
Exchanges

@ PancakeSwap S HOTBIT @)

Smart Contract Audit

SOLID

GROUP
Read Audit

Roadmap

CoinmarketCap Listing
Coingecko Listing
Exchanges Listing

dApp Launch
Catecoin Moved to New Contract Please Update New Contract in your Wallet.

More exchanges Listing

Cc ateco i n Contract Audit Locked liquidity Pancakeswap Twitter

Telegram

 
