CorgiCoin
W H ITE PAPE

R


www.corgicoin.net

CorgiCoin is a cryptocurrency with a unique
community ownership model. 100% of the
xed token supply is locked on a decentralized
exchange for purchase by anyone in the world.
In the spirit of decentralized ownership and
open access, no privileged entities like
developers or celebrities were allocated any
tokens. We believe that true community
ownership is the only stable foundation of trust,
and that trust is the de ning characteristic of a
successful currency.
Built on the Binance Smart Chain, CorgiCoin is
100x cheaper to exchange and send than
Ethereum-based tokens, and uses a fraction of
the electricity. CorgiCoin leverages core
blockchain innovations to deliver a global
currency with permissionless international
transactions and frictionless exchange.
Binance Smart Chain is the world’s rst
practical blockchain, and CorgiCoin is the rst
token on BSC with the complete community
ownership required to compete on the global
scale with existing reserve currencies like the
US dollar.

fi

fi

fl

fi

fi

DISCLAIMER: This whitepaper is presented for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be
fully comprehensive. It is not to be taken as nancial advice, or a recommendation to buy any
cryptocurrency. This whitepaper is meant to be a starting point for interested parties to begin their
research on CorgiCoin, and in no way constitutes a recommendation to buy tokens. Purchase of
cryptocurrency is inherently risky, and the authors of this whitepaper do not accept any responsibility
for nancial loss. CorgiCoin is a completely community driven project, and any purchase of CorgiCoin
must be made with the understanding that no centralized company or group of developers is
responsible for moving the project forward. This whitepaper does not imply any contractual
relationship. The whitepaper contains forward looking statements, which are not to be taken as
statements of fact. A large number of external factors will in uence the evolution of the project,
including market conditions, and levels of community engagement and contribution. All statements
are made to the best of the author’s knowledge at the time of writing, and the authors are not
responsible for any factual inaccuracies in the whitepaper.

fi

fi

ABSTRACT

A STORY
In 1684, New France had a problem. To pay their
soldiers, they relied on deliveries of gold from
France. But shipping rare metal across the Atlantic
was fraught with risk, as ships often foundered in
storms or were attacked by pirates. When the
annual shipment of specie failed to arrive in the fall
of 1684, New France was suddenly insolvent and
unable to pay wages to its soldiers. It was the
intendant Jacques de Meulles who found a
solution.
Jacques de Meulles con scated all of the playing
cards in the colony, and signed each one with his
seal and signature. Instead of paying soldiers in
gold, he gave them wages in these o cial playing
cards. Instantly a new at money was born. The
soldiers accepted the unorthodox payment, and
soon it was traded back and forth like gold. The
newly minted currency brought immediate utility to
the local economy, greasing the wheels of labor
and trade.

WHAT MAKES A CURRENCY?
The long arc of human history has seen many experiments in currency. We can now
pinpoint exactly the characteristics that make a currency useful. These characteristics
are transferability and trust. Useful currencies are convenient to exchange and store,
and the systems that govern their supply and demand are widely trusted.

ffi

fi

fi

There is an important synergy between transferability and trust: the more trust that
there is in a system, the more transferable its currency can be. The earliest human
societies were very unstable and thus lacked trust, so the only viable currencies were
objects of tangible and immediate value like grain or livestock. To our modern
sensibilities, it is obvious that cows make for a terrible currency. But when you cannot
trust your neighbor or government, a cow may be the only currency you accept.

EVOLUTION IN TRUST AND TRANSFERABILITY
As society evolved and institutions became more stable and trustworthy, the doors
were opened to more transferable currency, which in turn helped lubricate all economic
activity. The rst jump was from perishables like grain and livestock to commodities like
gold and copper.
The next leap forward occurred in the 7th century during the Tang Dynasty. Merchants
in China were tired of dealing with heavy copper coinage, so they began issuing
merchant receipts, promising their customers that these receipts could be redeemed
for hard currency in the future. As long as customers trusted the merchant’s word, they
would accept this more convenient and transferable IOU.
The next evolution was subtle but equally important. For years, London’s goldsmith
bankers held gold deposits for customers. A customer would deposit gold with the
banker, and get a receipt in return. The receipt entitled them to withdraw their gold at
any time. If they gave their receipt to another person, the receipt would be useless to
the new holder because they were not the owners of the gold account. In the 17th
century there was a breakthrough: the goldsmith bankers began making the receipts
payable to the bearer of the receipt, whomever that may be, rather than the original
customer who deposited the gold. This meant that the bank receipts could be
exchanged freely as paper money, over and over again!
Crucially, this evolution in transferability required an evolution of trust. With the original
merchant receipts, customers had to trust their banker, but at least that was someone
that they knew and saw frequently. But in order for these receipts to become accepted
by third parties, much greater trust was required. The new holder had to trust a banker
he had never met, and had to trust that the receipt and signature had not been forged
somewhere along the line.
THE FALLIBILITY OF HUMAN TRUST
Trust is the foundation of a useful currency. The more trustworthy an institution, the
more transferable and convenient its currency can be.
But all human institutions are fallible, and there is a limit to the trust that can be placed
in government currency like the US dollar. The dollar is the world’s reserve currency but
leaves a great deal to be desired. Individuals at the Federal Reserve have complete
control over the minting of new dollars, and recent months have seen this privilege
used extensively. The US money supply has increased by 25% in the last year. More
alarming is that there is no limit to how many dollars the Federal Reserve can print.

fi

fi

fi

Ten years from now, we will look back in confused disbelief at the current regime, when
the whole world simply crossed its ngers and hoped that the Federal Reserve
behaved responsibly with its in nite power to print new currency.

BLOCKCHAIN IS THE EVOLUTION OF TRUST
Blockchain entirely removes the need to trust a group of privileged humans. It is
impossible to overstate the signi cance of this discovery. Blockchains and
cryptocurrencies can be designed by humans but, once created, exist beyond human
institutions. Once created, they are governed by xed rules expressed in computer
code, that are at once transparent to everyone yet modi able by no one.
On the blockchain, ownership and transfer of currency is governed by indisputable
community consensus. It is truly decentralized and beholden to no one institution.
Blockchain exists beyond people, beyond companies, beyond governments.
Since Satoshi’s whitepaper in 2008, we have seen tremendous progress in blockchain.
Only now has the technology become mature enough to support viable contenders to
replace the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency. Bitcoin was a brilliant proof of
concept, but its practical use is limited by its lack of programmability. Ethereum
brought smart contracts to the blockchain, but consumes a country’s worth of
electricity just to handle very limited activity, and at the time of writing has network fees
over $10 for simple transactions.
BINANCE SMART CHAIN IS THE WORLD’S FIRST PRACTICAL BLOCKCHAIN

fi

fi

fi

ffi

Designed for practical e ciency, Binance Smart Chain has network fees 100x lower
than Ethereum, while maintaining all the same smart contract functionality. Launched in
September 2020, it has seen an explosion of user growth and already surpassed
Ethereum in daily transactions:

CorgiCoin was built from the ground up to provide a level of trust and transferability
unrivaled by any other cryptocurrency.
CorgiCoin transcends national
boundaries and is censorship-resistant.
Arbitrarily large sums of Corgis can be
transferred in seconds to anyone in the
world, in a permissionless way.
Built on the Binance Smart Chain, it costs
just cents to exchange and transfer and
uses a fraction of the electricity
consumed by Ethereum. As a BEP-20
token, it is interoperable with all BSC
smart contracts and decentralized
nance applications like PancakeSwap.
There is a xed supply of 10 billion
Corgis. The functionality to mint and burn
Corgis is not even present in its Solidity
contract code. It is in ation resistant by
design. We believe strongly that no
individual should have unilateral control
over the money supply.
CorgiCoin is not mined, so large concentrations of Corgis will not pool in the pockets of
already wealthy miners who have access to vast computing resources.
Most importantly, Corgi builds a culture of trust with a unique community ownership
model. It has become fashionable (and lucrative) for the developers of new
cryptocurrencies to allocate a large chunk of the total supply to themselves. This cuts
deeply against the heart of decentralization, and betrays community trust.
All 10 billion Corgis have been locked in a decentralized liquidity pool, and the keys
burned. We eliminated our own privileged roles as the creator of this currency as a
symbol of trust in our community. Because the blockchain and decentralized
exchanges are global and permissionless, the entire Corgi supply is literally available
for anyone in the world to purchase.

fl

Trust is the foundation of a currency’s acceptance and usefulness. We have embedded
community trust into the distribution mechanism of the entirety of the Corgi token
supply. More than that, we stand on the shoulders of giants, leveraging the sweeping
innovations in decentralized ownership and exchange, to deliver a new currency to rival
the US dollar as the world’s reserve currency.

fi

fi

CORGICOIN IS THE PEOPLE’S CURRENCY

SPREADING BLOCKCHAIN LITERACY THROUGH EDUCATION
The primary obstacle to global blockchain adoption is a lack of general knowledge
and uency. The technology behind blockchain is brand new and technically
sophisticated. Many prospective users are turned o by intimidating concepts like
public/private key cryptography, proof of work, and decentralized exchange, as well
as interfaces like MetaMask and other cryptographic wallets.
While blockchain has seen
tremendous growth in recent
years, we are still far from a
world where the majority feels
comfortable storing wealth on a
blockchain address. We view
education and blockchain
literacy as critical to long-term
adoption. CorgiCoin was
designed as a fun and userfriendly entryway into the
intimidating world of
blockchain. We are developing
smoother onramps to token
ownership on the Binance Smart Chain, and publishing informative articles
demystifying relevant technical concepts. Down the road, we envision that Corgis will
be used as a friendly incentive to complete tasks like creating a rst blockchain wallet.

BRINGING ART ONTO THE BLOCKCHAIN
Alongside education and blockchain literacy, the second early use case for CorgiCoin
is as a medium for art. The blockchain has already begun to revolutionize the art world
through non-fungible tokens. NFTs enable
decentralized ownership and exchange of art in a
transparent and counterfeit-proof way.

fi

ff

fi

fl

Bringing world-class artists into the Corgi
ecosystem will be a key avenue for spreading
mainstream awareness of blockchain. Already,
artists and designers are minting Corgi themed
BEP-721 NFTs. In the future, we envision a
dynamic NFT marketplace where users can
exchange CorgiCoin for unique art pieces, with
Web3 enabled online galleries that display owned
artwork once cryptographic signatures are veri ed.

CONCLUSION
We stand at a pivotal moment in history, when blockchain
technology has just now matured enough to enable a
viable competitor to the US dollar.
Bitcoin showed that proof of work can secure a
decentralized ledger.
Ethereum brought us programmable smart contracts.
Binance Smart Chain married decentralization with low
transaction fees and acceptable energy consumption.
CorgiCoin delivers the rst 100% community owned
token on the Binance Smart Chain, laying a foundation of
trust upon which the world’s next great currency will grow.

fi

JOIN US AT:
WEBSITE:
TWITTER:
REDDIT:
TELEGRAM:

corgicoin.net
twitter.com/corgicoinbsc
reddit.com/r/corgiarmy
t.me/corgicoinbsc

AD
LUNAM
CORGI

