CUMROCKET
 

 

Preface

CumRocket is a deflationary token that operates on the Binance Smart
Chain meaning there are virtually no gas fees and almost instantaneous
Swaps!

This is a token that rewards holders and punishes sellers, which can
encourage a Steadier price action.

CumRocket is a community project, meaning that the community will be
involved in the development of the project, each member will be able to
participate in discussion and submit ideas.

CumRockets main goal is to tap into the porn industry and provide a
novel 18+ NFT marketplace where users will be able to buy, sell, swap and
collect exclusive 18+ content! As well as a platform that creators can
charge for private content, where they get paid in crypto and tipped in
$CUMMIES.
 

 

Presale

To avoid a pump and dump situation, the presale (hosted on DxSale) was
capped at 50 BNB, with a limit of only 1 BNB per person.

Thanks to this plan we avoided having whales (at least at the very
beginning) that can dump on people if/when the price rises.

We have a total supply of 10 billion cummies and the presale rate was 1
BNB for 20 million cummies.

10% of the total supply was purchased before launch because of this
Successful presale!

The team wallet constitutes ~10% of the current circulating supply, 80%
of the supply was burned before launch.

The dev wallet is 50% locked for 2 months. Portions of the dev wallet will
be continued to be locked as the price rises higher and a stable floor is
formed.

Liquidity is locked for 1 year (PancakeSwap V1) and will be relocked once
the time is up.
 

 

Tokenomics

We have built a token that will reward you for holding it, without having to
manually stake it.

Just sit back, relax, and watch your CUMMIES automatically increase!

Each transaction triggers a 5% fee, where 2.5% is redistributed to all the

current holders, in proportion to their current holdings.
Diamond hands shall be rewarded!

Additionally, 2.5% will be burned for life, thus decreasing the total
Supply of the token, making it more scarce overtime.

This inversely-proportional relationship constitutes a supply and demand
model. There is also no /imit as to how many tokens can be burnt.
Creators will be able to upload their 18+ content with fans
able to pay in crypto, and tip in $CUMMIES!

There will be a NSFW NFT marketplace built as well as a platform where
creators can charge a monthly/yearly fee for private content.

This gives creators an opportunity to generate an additional income
stream instead of relying on private content alone.

Paying for adult content in crypto provides both buyers and creators with
anonymity, something that other popular platforms fail to provide.
Additionally, crypto does not have as many handling fees as fiat, therefore
we are able to charge a more competitive rate, providing creators with a
greater income.

Our fee is 85% to the creator, 15% to the platform which is 5% less than
the leading private content platform!

That 5% difference can make a world of difference to creators trying to
establish themselves in a competitive niche.

Tipping in $CUMMIES means that since our creators' wages don't depend
on it, they are more likely to hold their $CUMMIES and watch them grow!

Furthermore, creators have the potential to earn passive income through
the redistributive nature of the token (as long as the price continues to
rise).
We want to take pornography, a multi billion dollar
industry, and put it on the blockchain.

ne NFT marketplace will allow people to post full length pornographic
ips with video, sound, and also GIFs or pictures.

ne material will be stored in your wallet, and on the blockchain.

| you need are your wallet keys!

 

bPudu4a Hs

This is different from other marketplaces because people will be able to
post full pornographic videos and buy them, send them, sell them, collect
them.

They can do this without ever having the file stored on their computer,
meaning they can keep their porn private.

It will be the first marketplace of its kind, we will have a copyright bot
developed before porn minting is open to the public.
This ensures that content is not being copied or stolen.

We are serious about stopping any illegal content onto the platform -
there are robust KYC checks to ensure anyone posting is 18 or over.
Additionally, we will manually check each piece of content to ensure it is
fit for posting.

Our future plans include exploring other ways creators can earn a living
through adult content, such as having live cams.

The possibilities are endless and although people have tried, nobody has
done this on Binance Smart Chain (BSC).
18+ Platform

 

 

The platform is already a work in progress, with multiple Ul mockups
created and the aim of making it as accessible as possible (for creators
who may be new to crypto, but see the benefits that paying/being paid in
crypto gives). See some examples below.

CUMAOLIMT Tr Home Browse Featured Activity QO &%

6) Shelby Paris @ Featured

Ultricies massa malesuada viverra cras lobortis. Tempor orci hac ligula dapibus mauris sit ut eu.

 

Eget turpis urna maecenas cras. Nisl dictum.

6) Shelby Paris ©

Ultricies massa malesuada viverra cras lobortis. Tempor orci hac ligula dapibus mauris sit ut eu.

Eget turpis urna maecenas cras. Nisl dictum.

 

 

r

' wir . = oad,
CUMAOLILT Home Featured Messages Create QO ip

©) Profil

Profile
fo} Account This information will be displayed publicly so be careful what you share.
- Passwor d Username
cumrocket.com/ cummmies
Q\ Notificat
E) Plan & Billing About

 

Brief description for your profile. URLs are hyperlinked.

First name Last name

Website URL

Amazon Wishlist

Privacy
 

 

18+ Platform

Whilst this platform is in progress, we are raising funds for
marketing/development costs aswell as creating awareness, through
selling custom made NFTs on our brand new 18+ NFT marketplace!

This allows partnerships to be formed with these creators before the
platform has even launched, so that upon launch there will be a greater
chance of creators uploading content right away!

CumRocket has the potential to be a great disruptor to the NSFW
industry; providing unique ownership to customers and giving NSFW
creators greater value for their content.

Additionally, we offer liquidity providers the opportunity to stake
$CUMMIES to earn exclusive collectable CumRocket NFT’s, complete with
animation and sound!

Check out our NSFW NFTs here: https://cumrocketnft.com

Future Plans

In the future, to reward holders we would like to carry out a buy back and
lock of LP tokens. We could also potentially do a buy back and burn. This
would be done with a percentage of the profits generated from the
platform.
 

 

Regulation

We aim to be pioneers in placing explicit material on blockchain.

This is a challenge but also a great opportunity to lead the field in this new
market to demonstrate how crypto & blockchain can be used safely and
effectively in this context.

We have taken the decision to only associate with NSFW artists:

A. Who are clearly over the age of 18 along with matching identification
that proves their age.

B. That have professional quality material to view in the public domain.
C. That have an obvious and active fan base.
D. That can be spoken to directly without going through a third party.

E. That neither produces or have been involved with material where
adults are depicted as children.

F. That are clearly already established in the industry.

By only dealing with participants that can fulfil the above criteria, the
development team can satisfy themselves that they are genuine,
experienced people who are acting of their own free will.

We encourage input from all members of our community which may
contribute to the prevention of harm.
Please email: hello@cumrocketcrypto.com
We have an active, non-anon team on all our socials.

We feel this is incredibly important considering how many projects get
abandoned by the developers. The creator, has been subject to 2 rug pulls
themselves so we know how horrible it is! We truly want to try and make
this project succeed along with the community.

That's why we promise to be active on all current socials, to answer any
questions you may have and to enforce a strong community spirit!

There is a team wallet that will be used for any costs associated with the
project, for example; marketing, dev costs, exchange listing costs etc.
Everyone has the ability to see the transactions of this wallet as it is in the
public domain, furthermore, we will let everyone know of any large
transactions that are to be withdrawn from this wallet.

The creator is a female software engineer and tiktoker with 24k followers:
https://www.tiktok.com/@tldrfinance

She has performed a KYC here:
https://twitter.com/Christo50366544/status/1 3781 12360959856642

non-anon
active team
GrL a

CUMROCKET

cn cumrocketcrypto.com

https: //t.me/cumrocket

 

https: //discord.gg/Tett4kJsKN
