Dear Earth Citizens,

As you may know, I have dedicated my life to ensuring that humanity becomes a multi-planetary species. This involves work on four front: interplanetary flight, terraforming the planet, sending settlers, and creating an interplanetary currency. I am excited to announce today the launch of our forefront in our mission to Mars. The first interplanetary currency: Dogelon.

Technically, it is is a fork of Dogecoin, in the same sense that a knife is a fork of a spoon. I have named it after the capital city of Mars: Dogelon (pronounced Dog-a-lon, not Doge Elon because that would be arrogant). The ticker is Dogelon (ELON), which should help prevent any confusion. I am launching this currency today, in anticipation of bringing the first settlers to Mars, for a very specific reason: To help people take the trip with me. A lot of good people have hopes of one day reaching the Moon.

In my opinion, of course, this is a very low aspiration. We want to reach Mars and beyond. However, many of those good people are rugged, or buy scam tokens that can't be sold. For this reason, the Dogelon community pledges to send tokens over time to victims of rugs and scams, so that the worst day of their trading life can be turned into their best. And after some time, they will be able to join us on our regular flights to Mars....


Think of Dogelon as a fair universal currency for the people. Everywhere. It is not a meme currency like Doge, Shiba, or Cardano. This is a real project that will be constantly evolving. And that begins with undoing the damage done by scammers, schemers, and bad actors. You may have some questions.

No, as I mentioned, it’s a “fair” universal currency. There was no presale. No one has tokens. Besides Vitalik Buterin. I sent half to him. As a thank you.


The Uniswap link is here: Uniswap.
The contract address is: 0x761d38e5ddf6ccf6cf7c55759d5210750b5d60f3.

I leave this up to the community to determine. Otherwise, people will just be getting rugged to get some Dogelon. I expect this currency to be more coveted than not just Ethereum but also Dogecoin. Which I shall from this day forward be referring to as Test Doge.

Yes, my name is Elon.