 
An Introduction
to HOGE

 
HOGE ORIGINS

What is HOGE?

Hoge is an ERC20 token on the Ethereum blockchain that has a 2% tax on every
transfer. Part of that tax is reflected back to current holders, and part is burned
forever making Hoge a deflationary cryptocurrency asset. Hoge is a fair launch
project; everybody buys in. Even the developers.

 

The HOGE Project

There will never be more HOGE in circulation than there is now. The Hoge Token is
100% owned by community members and trading exchanges. There is no developer
wallet or revenue structure built into the token itself. The human resources group
within the project has estimated there is an average of 80 to 110 developers or
significant contributors working on the project at any given time, all working for free.

Hoge is a community - Because there is no developer wallet, the community is
incentivized to work together to achieve its common goals. Hoge has achieved
success by focusing on the improvement of its brand, Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
technology, charitable efforts, and most importantly its people.

 
Memes are the latest iteration of language evolution in our hyper-connected society. The combination of the
comedic, visual, and literary forms has reimagined fundamental communication norms in the 21st century.

Exploring this form Is proving to be one of the necessary challenges of our time as information becomes subjugated
to human desire. Through non-traditional incentive structures both in Finance (DeFi) and Cooperation (DAO) we
can reimagine the way society functions to achieve previously impossible goals where political will (cooperation) or
resources (finance) were scarce.

The Hoge community promotes the simultaneous growth of an economy and its participants through rapid

collaboration and alternate financial structures. Hoge solves the chicken and egg problem of poverty: with no
resources, it is impossible to grow, and without growth, it is impossible to acquire resources.

Vision

Don't let your memes be dreams

 
HOGE ECOSYSTEM -
TEAMWORK MAKES THE DREAM WORK

Hoge Brand

The most powerful aspect
of Hoge. Hoge is very well
positioned to introduce the
benefits of Ethereum’s  °°°"** >
decentralized network to
the mainstream. What
Mickey Mouse did for the
Disney Brand, Hoge will do
for Ethereum and DeFi.

Hoge Association

A non-profit association in
Switzerland watches over

the brand. It executes
partnershipsand = wwnne ee >
agreements on behalf of the
community. This entity

offers a doorway into the
corporate world for DeFi

projects.

DAO & Governance

Solving the corporate @
DeFi partnership by
promoting a governance
model where the Hoge
Association supports and
is beholden to a
Decentralized

Autonomous Organization
(DAO).

 
Community

In an industry that relies on individuals exchanging value with one another, nothing matters more than
community. Hoge purposefully harnesses the power of it's community as a varied and ever growing talent pool
to build on the Hoge ecosystem. It empowers the individuals within using decentralized governance and tools.

 

¢ Meme Creation

e Educational Videos
¢ Graphics

¢« Game Development
¢ Mobile Apps

¢ Smart Contracts

¢ Writing Articles

 
It's bull

LIMITED EDITION ; [alelefepieler-t-)

} "Why wont it dump... | need to buy
inate |e

} ac0feQaS6adeaa589e43850dac664i6r17:

HOGE FOUNDATION 202)

 

 

Members 2 EDITION
ae - ——)

Stream= F ire$tream burns circulating
supply and is so powerful it instantly
incinerates any other meme
Dollar Hoge- Summons Hoge Army from
around the world

1c089b792b8 fb2e3 04a8face43cc9 bbc

]
HOGE.FINANCE 2021

 

Hoge Tsunami @)
ee.)

5 igh Ks BY
LIMTED EDITION : 0000-0017

There was a great silence. The water

} retreated and people began to murmer,

pointing and shielding their eyes. On

the horizon, HOGE appeared...

ieee racers csctenher ae

HOGE FOUNDATION 202)

 

 

i J

i=>.4 on Members2™ EDITION

a —_ _ ee _ a
——_

COT Seas) Un Es LeR
od

6006003af82920f7f17 d0bc8f655cc99 ;
|

~ HOGE.FINANCE 2021

NFT Events

HogeMint has seen two successful minting events to reward Hoge holders.
The mint is a webapp where holders can upload their favorite meme and have
it turned into a trading card/nft token that lives on the blockchain forever.
Tokenomics and
Transactions

 
0% of the supply is 50% of the supply is 70% of the supply is
burned. 100% burned. 50% burn: burned. 70% burn:

redistribution : 2% 1% of every 1.4% of every

of every transaction transaction is
burned. 30%
redistribution: 0.6%

of every transaction

transaction is
burned. 50%
redistribution: 1%
of every transaction

and transfer is
redistributed.

0%

  

and transfer is and transfer is
redistributed. redistributed.

Tokenomics

The HOGE ERC-20 token has a 2% reflect amount for each transaction. 1,000,000,000,000 tokens
were minted for the initial supply, and half of those were immediately burned. This balanced the
starting transactions to redistribute 1% proportionally weighted to each wallet, and burn 1% of each
transaction amount. As more tokens are burned, the burn rate slowly increases. At the end of April
2021, each transaction is weighted as follows, and 41.2% of the initial supply is still in circulation.

 
Tokenomics Continued

The deflationary tokenomics squeeze supply all while the brand, active community, and meme culture all boosting
demand. By both decreasing supply and increasing demand, the equilibrium price of HOGE has been engineered
to squeeze the price higher over time, rewarding all holders. At only a 2% tax, it does so without being prohibitive to
trade volume. The intention of this design i is to make HOGE the first point of contact that mainstream users have
with the Ethereum network. The token serves as a native store of value on the blockchain, and easily usable
collateral for smart contracts in Decentralized Finance. Compared to traditional finance, which offers .5% returns for
savings accounts, investors using DeFi apps can gain 13% returns on the conservative end of the spectrum.

To calculate the ongoing rate of redistribution, the Certik

Audit gives a complete formula:
Description

Suppose the initial total supplies _tTotal = Ti and _rTotal TS, then the initial exchange rate between
rSupply and tSupply rp = J /Ti. After we make the first transfer of amount x from the initial owner
to account A, the r balance of A _rOwned[A] = O', = 0.99. And _rTotal becomes Tj — 0.012

because of the transfer fees. Then we exclude account A such that the t balance _tOwned[A] =

O',/ro = 0.99xT;) /T;;. Now the rate

: 15 —00la—-0.99% Tj-az Ty Ly
‘ T!_0.992Tt/Tr = Tr 0.992 Ti ~ °

 

 

Similarly we can find the exchange rate will decrease as more accounts are excluded. However, as lang

 

as the majority of the supply is not excluded, the decrease will be small.
Hoge Roadmap

 
Standard Crypto Roadmap Unique Projects Roadmap

¢ Tracking on various crypto sites (Coingecko and ¢ Two phases of the NFT Platform deployed with
Coinmarketcap) custom minting (The Genesis and The Expansion)

¢ Website deployment ¢ Creation of a legal entity (DAO - Hoge Hybrid)

¢ App deployment ¢ Bridged to aL2 Network (xDai)

¢ Creating social media platforms and building an ¢ Website game development
organic social media presence ¢ Created an eSports community

¢ Developing relationships with non-profits and « Passed a full audit from Certik (becoming the first
animal charities DeFi meme token in the history of crypto to do this

¢ Listing on centralized exchanges on their platform)

¢ CubeSat team formed and prepped for 2021 NASA
CSLI call for proposals....memes in SPACE.

Hoge Roadmap - Completed

Hoge Finance began with a clear and aggressive roadmap. To date,
every item listed has been completed on time or ahead of schedule.

 
Future Projects: Q3 - Q4 of 2021

Hoge Finance has some very ambitious future goals and these include:
¢ Listing on a US-headquartered exchange
¢ Creation of a program to send satellites into space
¢ Completion of an NFT eCommerce marketplace, making HogeMint
a single source for creating, viewing, and purchasing
¢ Creation of a crypto crowdfunding platform
¢ Development of a HOGE eCommerce/Merchandising platform
¢ Development of a charity donation staking wallet
¢ Implement a DAO governance Platform
¢ Exploring dApp games within the Hoge ecosystem
¢ Building two-way bridges to other networks (Matic, BSC, and
Fantom)
¢ Creating a cross-chain swap platform
¢ Improvements to current smart contract technologies
o Improved incentives for liquidity locking platforms
o Improved DEX with liquidity consensus protocols

 
(CA 2021 EXPANDED ROADMAP

Hoge Space Program

As part of exploring new frontiers and
supporting the broader endeavors of
humanity, Hoge has founded a small
space program with the focus of
developing a CubeSat platform to
integrate crypto technologies in orbit.
The team has a strong mission of broader
impacts and outreach to bring value not
only to the Hoge brand, but also to the
greater community.

Bridges & Swaps

To increase the utility of the greater DeFi
space, Hoge is exploring bridges to
various networks (Fantom, Polygon, xDai,
BSC). This is the first step in building the
more capable Cross-Chain swap, which
only compounds the problems of a normal
bridge.

NFT Marketplace

After several successful NFT minting
events, Hoge will be developing a full
ecommerce platform to support its
meme trading cards.

Improved Liquidity Locking

The simplicity of DeFi token launches is
both a blessing and a curse. The crypto
space still sees a lot of fraud and scams,
of which Hoge will have no part of! The
community is working on _ alternate
incentive structures to have market
forces do the heavy lifting when
technology cannot.

 

DEX Consensus Protocols

A true DEX would be run by the
community, not a small team. Hoge
intends to place power in the hands of
the people with a configurable DEX
controlled by a DAO. Despite the mantra
of “vote with your dollar”, people are still
incentivized to invest in companies that
destroy their way of life. The DAO-DEX
gives power back to the people.

Crowdfunding Platform

Getting back to its currency roots, the
community is working on a crowdfunding
platform for Hoge to support content
creators and artists with new business
models via NFTs and microtransaction

apps.
Links ‘and Other
Information

 
Main Info

Ethereum Contract:
Oxfad45e4'7083e4607302aa43c
65fb3106f1cd7607

Website

Reporting

NFT Platform

Game Website

GitHub

Certik Audit

Legal Documents

USEFUL LINKS

 

 

Coin Links Social Media

Etherscan Twitter Torum

Uniswap Youtube - Hoge Official Giphy

Coinbase Price Youtube - University Twitch Tv

CoinMarketCap  ## "°°" > Instagram Telegram

CoinGecko Facebook Discord
TikTok Reddit
LinkedIn
No part of this document should be construed as financial advice, nor as a guarantee of the future performance for
HOGE or any other investment mentioned herein. Cryptocurrencies are extremely speculative and are subject to
powerful market forces and fluctuations outside of the control of the Hoge Finance team. These include but are not
limited to macroeconomic trends and governmental regulations. No one affiliated with this whitepaper or with Hoge
finance assumes responsibility for the performance of your asset, for the delivery of tokens to your wallet, nor for the
security of your wallet. It is your responsibility to take all necessary security precautions when purchasing

cryptocurrencies.

Disclaimer

Do Your Own Research

 
