Kuma Inu

Whitepaper 1.0
1 Introduction

Over a matter of weeks, the cryptocurrency markets saw meme coins shoot up in popularity and
value, rivalling the likes of Dogecoin. KUMA is among the most loved of these meme coins,
leading people into new and unforgettable experiences in the cryptocurrency ecosystem. After
experiencing huge growth in both its community and token price in a short space of time,

Kuma’s community has grown from strength to strength.

This presents boundless opportunities to unlock gains from the cryptosphere like never before.
The future of the digital economy is driven by community. The shift in trends to meme coins has
set a domino effect which offers new approaches to defining experiences with cryptocurrencies

through community, rather than centralized methods.

Kuma empowers its community with utility tokens that give them a wide variety of benefits in the
cryptocurrency ecosystem. Kuma’s offerings include a DEX, governance rights, farming, and

vaults. These features ensure that the platform benefits all community members.
2 Kuma Inu Ecosystem

2.1 Kuma Dex

KumaDex is a decentralized, vAMM based perpetual contract trading protocol for leverage
traders with infinite on-chain liquidity. Unlike traditional AMMs, users can trade perpetual futures
contracts utilizing the Constant Product Market Maker formula with up to 25x long or short
leverage. Funding rate mechanism is in place to ensure vAMM market asset price converges

with the underlying asset index price.

With Kuma DEX, users do not have to worry about threats of centralized authorities interfering

with their use of tokens as the DEX is designed to be market neutral and fully decentralized.

Price discovery issues became a significant concern in the cryptocurrency industry for several
reasons. One of the major reasons is that buyers of cryptocurrencies across the world have
different use cases for the technology. While some buyers prefer to use cryptocurrencies as a
medium of exchange for goods and services, other users of cryptocurrencies choose to use
them as an investment. It is no surprise that several types of cryptocurrencies have been

likened to precious metals and commodities in the past.

Kuma DEX offers opportunities for price discovery and arbitrage. To understand what makes
Kuma DEX beat the competition with its approach to price discovery, it is important to first
understand what price discovery really means. This method of determining the spot price or
proper price of an asset, security, product, or currency takes into account a variety of tangible

and intangible variables, such as supply and demand, investor risk perceptions, and the overall
economic and geopolitical climate. Kuma DEX is designed to achieve price discovery for its
users using an advanced technical architecture which takes into account the variety of different

market factors that the competition does not consider.

Key features of KumaDex include:

1. Similar to traditional Automated Market Makers like Uniswap, traders don’t need to rely
on centralized exchanges (counter-parties) to place trades. By interacting with
KumaDex vAMM smart contracts, traders can gain exposure to derivatives for any
assets on the market. While most decentralized derivative trading platforms face liquidity
concerns, the KumaDex vAMM offers consistent on-chain liquidity.

2. The KumaDex platform utility and governance token dKUMA is built with a deflationary
economic design. 50% of the platform trading fees will be allocated towards token
buyback & burn in order to offset rewards token emission and increase scarcity of

dKUMA.

Perpetual Contracts

Perpetual Contracts are cryptocurrency derivatives that enable traders to speculate on the

valuation of specific underlying assets. Perpetual contracts have a few distinct differences

when compared to traditional futures contracts:

“+ There is no expiry date on contracts. Contracts are effective until traders close their
positions.

“* The underlying asset itself is never traded, therefore custody issues are mitigated.
“* The swap price closely tracks the price of the underlying asset by utilizing funding rates.
A mechanism ensures convergence of the perpetual price to the index price by

exchange of currency swaps between long and short traders.

The price of perpetual contracts would typically deviate from the underlying asset spot price.

These differences reflect market sentiment: If the majority of traders expect the underlying
asset to rise in value, the perpetual contract price will surpass the spot price. If the majority of
traders believe the price will drop, the price of the perpetual contracts will be lower than the

spot price.

In general, perpetual contract trading on KumaDex is very similar to trading perpetual on
centralized exchanges such as BitMex, Binance and FTX.

The main difference is: All assets and trades are stored and executed on-chain. There’s no
need to rely on counterparties and risk centralized off-chain servers. Users have full custody

of their own funds.

Virtual Automated Market Maker (vAMM)

Our vAMM uses the same x*y=k constant product formula as most AMMs do. However, as
the word virtual suggests, The vAMM itself does not contain an actual asset pool (k). Instead,
the actual assets are kept in a smart contract vault that oversees all of the vAMM's
collateral... In contrast to traditional AMMs, we use a VAMM as a price discovery mechanism,
but not for spot trading.

This allows KumaDex to operate with infinite liquidity with zero impermanent loss for

stakeholders as liquidity providers aren’t required.
The vAMM itself acts as an independent settlement market, all profits and losses are directly
settled in a collateral vault.

Traders use USDC as collateral to open long or short positions in a given asset.

An important difference is that no swap is occurring. Unlike other exchanges, for example,
where traders arrive with asset A and leave with asset B, on KumaDex traders always arrive
with USDC, and leave with USDC. All profits/losses will be in USDC. Since there are no

liquidity providers inside vAMMs.

Traders may use leverage with KumaDex by backing a position with a margin, which is less

than the total position size.

Liquidation

Each opened position on KumaDex has a margin and notional.

The margin refers to the actual collateral used to back a position. The notional is the size of
the position after leverage is considered, denominated in underlying assets. So a position
with a margin of 1000 USDC and 10x leverage will have a notional value of 10,000 USDC.
The ratio of the margin vs the notional size gives the margin ratio. If the market moves

against you, as your PNL falls, your margin ratio will also fall.

Liquidation occurs when your position margin ratio falls to 6.25% or below.
It is triggered by bots. As a reward for performing this service, bots earn 1.25% of the

remaining notional. The remaining margin will be placed in the protocol insurance fund.

MarginRatic = (Margin + UnrealizedPVL) / PositionNotional
UnrealizedPML = (ClosePrice - OpenPrice) * Position Size + FundingFee

PocitionNotional = PocitionSize * MarketPrice

Limit order and Stop orders

With limit orders, you can place an order at a specific price or better. A buy limit order will
be filled if the price matches your limit price or lower and a sell limit order will be filled at
your limit price or higher.

It's the same with Binance, but not placed on the order book as we are using vAMMs.

The stop order is a combination of stop loss order and take profit order. The system will
decide whether an order is a stop loss order or a take profit order based on the price level

of trigger price against the last price or mark price when the order is placed.

A stop-loss order is an order placed with a broker to buy or sell a security when it reaches a
certain price. Stop-loss orders are designed to limit an investor's loss on a position in a
security and are different from stop-limit orders. When a stock falls below the stop price the

order becomes a market order and it executes at the next available price.

A take-profit order (T/P) is a type of limit order that specifies the exact price at which to close
out an open position for a profit. If the price of the security does not reach the limit price, the

take-profit order does not get filled.
Trade Fees

A trading fee is charged when opening and closing positions on Kuma Dex.

Collected fees will be used for project development and community encouragement.

50% of fees will be deposited into the smart contract of Kuma Dex DAO and the other 50%
will be allocated towards $dKUMA holders. Fees are all collected from the collateral vault,
meaning stable coins.

Note that this 50% - 50% ratio is the initial state, it may be adjusted by the community

governance.

Trade Example

Step 1: Alice sends 100 USDC to the Clearing House on KumaDex and declares to use that

fund as the initial margin to open a 3x leveraged long position.

Step 2: Upon receiving the 100 USDC, the Clearing House deposits the funds into the
Collateral Vault. After that, KumaDex updates the asset price in our vVAMM according to the

margin amount, position direction (long or short), and the amount of leverage.

The deposited funds from Alice aren't stored inside our AMMs, whereas on Uniswap, the
deposited tokens from traders are indeed stored inside their AMMs. Due to this difference,
we name our AMMs "Virtual AMMs" because there is no actual token swapping involved in

our AMMs.

Assume we have 1,000,000 KUMA and 10,000 USDC in our vAMM as its initial state.
 

 

 

 

 

 

Step KUMA USDC
Initial state 1,000,000 10,000
Alice opens 29,126.22 long (300 USDC) 970,873.78 10,300
Bob opens 44,947.86 long (500 USDC) 925,925.92 10,800
Alice closes long and earns 29.35 USDC 955,050.54 10,470.65
Bob closes long and loses 29.35 USDC 1,000,000 10,000

 

 

 

 

Step 3: If Alice uses 100 USDC as the margin to open a 3x leveraged long position, which
means that the amount of USDC in our vAMMs will become 10,300 (10,000+100*3), the
amount of KUMA will become 970,873.78, (1,000,000*10,000/10,300), which is calculated by
the constant-product curve, and the position Alice opens is 29,126.22 KUMA

(1,000,000-970,873.78).

Step 4: Following Alice, Bob uses 100 USDC to open a long position with 5x leverage. His

position size will be 44,947.86 KUMA (970,873.78-925,925.92) as calculated by the vVAMM.

Step 5: After Bob opened a long position, Alice decides to close her position and realizes a

profit of 29.35 USDC

Step 6: Seeing the price dropped, Bob wants to close his position to prevent further damage,
only to find out that he lost -29.35 USDC

2.2 Kuma Breeder

We early introduced our Kuma Breeder and it is currently running on Ethereum mainnet

(https://app.kKumatoken.com)

 
Kuma Breeder is a yield farming protocol which offers a fresh approach to farming $4KUMA
tokens. The Kuma Inu community can gain from the fair distribution system which ensures
that the whole community benefits from Kuma Breeder farming pools.

It currently has various of farming pools like ETH-dKUMA, ETH-KUMA, ETH-SHIB,
ETH-LEASH, ETH-AKITA, ETH-ELON for LP pools and KUMA, SHIB, LEASH, AKITA, ELON
for single token pools which are offering high interest rates.

More pools are eligible to be added by community governance.

2.3 Kuma Vault

Kuma Inu will provide a Vault system for maximizing returns on investments.

Kuma Vault involves pools of funds with an associated strategy on the asset in the vault.
Vault strategies are more active than just lending out coins. In fact, a vault can do multiple
things to maximise the returns. Each vault follows a strategy that is voted on by the Kuma Inu
community.

Kuma Vaults might be created as a direct response to yield farming and liquidity mining that
made searching for the highest yield much more complex than just switching between
different lending protocols.

Similarly to the typical Defi Vaults, when users deposit tokens to a vault they receive their
corresponding kTokens that represent shares of the vault.

One of the important keys when you come to Kuma Vault, in general, is the fact that you
always withdraw the same asset that was initially deposited. So farmed tokens and accrued
fees are sold for $KUMA in the vault. Also you can increase your interest rate by staking

kTokens to Kuma Breeder and farming $dKUMA tokens.
Kuma Vault will be opened as a single vault which is responsible for stable coins
DAIVUSDC/USDT.
More vaults can be added by voting on the Kuma Inu community governance.

GO

Curve Guage
CRV LP tokens ds din Guags
- generate CRV tokens.

    

Get SKUMA + $4KUMA Rewards

ge

eS
KUMA av
* $KUMA Buy back
UNISWAP Provide liquidity in Curve.ff 3 Cruve pool
tl }____ and receive CRV/LP tokens which represent

your share of the poo!
KumaVault “se”

 

 
3 Decentralized Autonomous Organization

Kuma Inu’s goal is to be the first 100% fully decentralized community-driven project in space.
To achieve it, we are going to offer DAO to the community, thus the community can control and

drive the project.

3.1 Kuma Vessel

Kuma Vessel is a decentralized autonomous governance system for the Kuma Inu community to
control the whole process of marketing, development and all other parts of the project.

The primary voting token is $KUMA.

From the regulatory perspective the project must be running under DAO authority.

No team, No founders.. All community members are project owners.

Devs and everything around the project will be hired by Kuma Vessel.

Since the community is custodian of the project, funds will be stored in the Kuma Vessel smart
contract. Everything will be paid by DAO.

Decentralization. This is our dream.

3.2 Kuma Dex DAO

Kuma Dex DAO is another DAO for Kuma Dex product management and development.

The primary voting token is $4KUMA.

Since Kuma Dex is the biggest product of the Kuma Inu Community, we are going to separate
DAO for dex product management.

Anything can be decided and driven by Kuma Dex DAO regarding the dex product.
For example, if someone wants to list a new coin to Kuma Dex, he might create a new proposal
on Kuma Dex DAO. And the community decides whether to go or not.

Also trading fee, rewards fee may be adjusted by Kuma Dex DAO.

4 KUMA and dKUMA Tokens

Kuma Inu Community now has 2 tokens - $KUMA and $dKUMA.

4.1 KUMA Token

KUMA v1.0

Kuma Inu’s $KUMA has a total supply of 1,000T $KUMA.

50% of the supply was allocated towards Vitalik Buterin as a gesture of peace, 12% to
Ecosystem Fund for marketing, development, bug bounty, airdrop, burn events. Founders
locked their tokens (10% of supply) for 100 years, and we already announced this to the
community. Also 3% of supply was allocated towards Ryoshi as another gesture.

Finally, 25% was apportioned towards Uniswap Listing paired with ETH, Uniswap was

chosen as the primary platform listing of SKUMA on 12 May 2021.

KUMA v2.0

Kuma Inu Community showed integrity and unity in a will to have a 100% decentralized

project.
Robin Hood took wealth from The King to share it with people and Kuma Inu is doing the
same on its base: we take back tokens from VB and share it with the community.
Previous $KUMA v1 holders can migrate to v2 through the Migration contract.

Now we are starting fully decentralization.

4.2 dKUMA Token (Kuma Dex Governance Token)

$dKUMA is a new token of Kuma Inu community and it is the primary utility token of Kuma
Dex.

There was no pre-sale or public sale for $S4KUMA tokens and 100% of $dKUMA tokens were
distributed through Kuma Breeder as the Kuma Inu community worked towards a completely
decentralized project.

$dKUMA token is a deflationary token itself, but it will have the max supply which will be set

by the community.

5 Contact

Telegram Community - https://t.me/KumalnuOfficial
Official Twitter - httos://twitter.com/KumalnuOfficial
Website - httos://www.kumatoken.com

Medium - https://kumainu, medium.com

Reddit - https://www.reddit.com/r/Kumalnu

CoinMarketCap - https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/kuma-inu/

CoinGecko - https:/Avww.coingecko.com/en/coins/kuma-inu
