Cake Monster
A hyper-deflationary and elastic supply token that has
unique reserve and reward mechanisms featuring an
automated hybrid monetary policy.

8 June 2021 (v1.0)

Abstract

DeFi is poised to revolutionize the financial markets by cutting out
costs for intermediaries, such as banks or legal departments and
offering new and compelling ways to earn interest in digital assets or
gain easy and straightforward access to credit. Normally, DeFi token
should aim to establish new standards in terms of transparency,
access, and monetary models, but instead the majority of DeFi token
is controlled by malicious actors or/and use inadequate economic
models that are on the verge of implosion due to their archaic
monetary policies. Interest rates fast become unprofitable for holders
while emission blocks reduce to fight inflation, often leaving later
entrants with an irrecoverable financial loss.

Acurrent solution for a sustainable token ecosystem is represented by
elastic supply token that aim to balance the splits between inflation
and deflation of token supply trough rebases, trying to solve the
inelasticity problem of fixed supply token through rebases of supply
and keep steady interest rates.

In this paper we present Cake Monster, a hyper-deflationary and
elastic supply token that has unique reserve and reward mechanisms
featuring an automated hybrid monetary policy. We describe the
components that Cake Monster provides to maintain a_ fair,
sustainable, and rewarding ecosystem. We introduce our monetary
policy and reserve system, and describe Cake Monster's deflationary
cycle, how it ends, and how it begins. Then we describe how the
generated yield is calculated and accomplished. Finally, we will lay out
our plans for the future.
Contents

1 Introduction

2 Architectural Overview
2.1 Management (Vault)
2.2 Policy (Monetary)
2.3 Volume

3 General Overview
3.1 Tax System
3.2 Cycle and Functions

4 Relaunch Process
5 Yield Generation
6 Long-Term Technical Strategy

7 Legal Disclaimer and Risk Caution

10

12

13

14
1 Introduction

DeFi tokens (Decentralized Finance Tokens) are financial applications that run on
blockchains and mirror concepts that have been successfully used in traditional
banking and finance. The key idea is to recreate financial services in a decentralized
way without a third party, such as a bank, intervening. Instead, trust is placed in written
code (smart contract) that is deployed on a blockchain network and allows interest to
be earned, loans to be obtained or (synthetic) assets to be traded, and more, without
relying on a third party.

If holders of a typical DeFi token want to earn high interest on staking or yield
platforms, they typically have to expose themselves to several risks, such as loss of
control over holdings, insecure/badly written smart contracts, and extremely volatile
market conditions, coupled with an immature token economy whose value is only
supported by its own underlying token and its experimental utility. In most cases, the
applied monetary policy does not allow for sustainability or longevity of these projects,
creating a bubble that will inevitably implode due to its corrupt and inflexible nature.

In addition, the associated gas costs and the numerous transactions/interactions that
end users must initiate along the way make this system error-prone and expensive.
These inefficiencies ensure that the general public cannot be effectively reached due
to low accessibility, high financial risks, and general fear factors (e.g., crypto project
fraud rates, unregulated markets).

The introduction of frictionless revenue generation has opened up DeFi to a wider
audience, as it simplifies most user interactions via automated logic and rewards
holders by passing a small portion of the protocol tax to all holders of the specific
token, while another tax portion seeks to preserve token value via deflationary
measures such as token burning.

But the problems that remain are the overall profitability and fair distribution of
rewards, the insufficiently maintained sustainability and stability of the protocol's
ecosystem (implosion/monopolization), and the inability to update the smart contract
logic and the lack of an advanced and well-executed marketing strategy aimed at
achieving mass adoption through high, fast, and low-cost accessibility of the project.

Cake Monster proposes a solution that combines the benefits of perpetual, easily
accessible and profitable rewards for all with a smart and complex monetary solution
that allows the protocol to stay healthy in all market conditions, where inelastic fixed-
supply tokens are vulnerable to shocks. In addition, there is a memeable artwork
design, an upgradable contract, and an overly ambitious, dedicated, and well-
connected team. Supporting many investment strategies, Cake Monster is a credible
financial tool for holders and traders alike and can be used, for example, as a hedge
or simple speculation for short, medium, and long-term strategies.
Whitepaper roadmap

In this whitepaper*, we provide an overview of the Cake Monster architecture (Section
2) and a general overview of the tax and cycle functions (Section 3). We describe Cake
Monster's relaunch process (Section 4) and follow with information about the applied
yield generation within the Gravity Vault (Section 5). We then describe a proposed
long-term development (6). Finally, we present a legal disclaimer (7).

2 Architectural Overview

Cake Monster's core functional goal is to maintain an automated hybrid monetary
policy (deflationary/inflationary) that protects its ecosystem from currency implosion
through hyper deflationary cycles while generating non-native returns ($CAKE) within
its own reserve vault for native token holders. Below, we describe the architecture of
each component of Cake Monster. Cake Monster will initially be built on Binance
Smart Chain, but we intend to integrate it with all leading smart contract networks
that support an underlying reserve asset in the future. Cake Monster was designed
with modularity in mind. Every part of the Cake Monster system is upgradeable,
allowing various components to be replaced as better techniques and competing
implementations emerge.

The protocol logics are based on three fundamental pillars: Management, Policy, and
Volume. Their interactions with each other are critical to the underlying functions and
their value, feeding the vaults at the core of the economic model and using their
applied functions: Yield, Tax, and Deflation.

POLICY
VAULT

VOLUME
2.1 Management (Vault)

Allows the community to:

manage the aggregation of the reserve asset ($CAKE) for the gravity vault.
add locked liquidity to the LP on the DEX via temporary vault.

cash out inactive holders and swipe dust in wallets to stay compliant to the
policy.

claim rewards generated in the gravity vault.

re-launch the protocol when conditions are met.

2.2 Policy (Monetary)

Will allow the protocol to:

ensure flexibility, stability, and execution of vital functionalities.

maintain constant yield generation within the gravity vault.

maintain the tax/burn system to ensure deflation of native supply and
inflation of reserve assets within the vaults.

maintain ever-rising price floor by adding monetary value to liquidity pool
and gravity vault.

2.3 Volume

Allows the ecosystem to ensure:

buys and sells are contributing to overall yield generation. The higher the
volume, the bigger the gravity vault, the faster the deflation, the faster the
native token price appreciation, the higher the yield, the faster the collectable
rewards for holders.

acceleration of the protocol value and a rising cyclic price floor.

tax collection and deflation of supply.

3 General Overview

The Cake Monster protocol is designed to run in perpetual cycles, during which it
burns off its initial supply until it reaches its programmed minimum of 1 million
tokens (deflation rate per cycle 99.99%). At the same time, it builds up a protocol
backing reserve (Gravity Vault) containing $CAKE, which acts as price anchor and
makes itself available as a sophisticated reward system for holders of the native
$MONSTA token.
Cake Monster Cycle
Circulating Supply == Reserve Value Expected Price Action

100 --

; Z

 

3.1 Tax System

The protocol monetary policy uses a total tax of 5% on each transaction (sale,
purchase, transfer). A portion of the protocol tax (2.5% per TX) is used to replenish
the temporary vault with $MONSTA tokens. This vault acts as a proxy between the
Blockchain (BSC) and the Gravity Vault, which holds $CAKE in reserve and has the
following tasks:

Temporary Vault

1. Add a portion of $MONSTA (10%) as locked liquidity to the Pancake Swap
liquidity pool (50% converted to BNB, 50% $MONSTA)

2. Swap $MONSTA for $CAKE and add $CAKE to the Gravity Vault (MONSTA >
WBNB > CAKE)

Another part of the protocol taxes (2.5% per TX) is used to burn $MONSTA forever.
Tax Flowchart

©

Managed

 

 

 

 

Convert 50% to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BNB Temporary Vault Burn Address
v
Add locked 90% Swap $MONSTA for »| Add $CAKE to
Liquidity ° SCAKE "| Gravity Vault
to LP
Managed Managed Managed

Only 5% is taxed on each transaction (2.5% Vault Tax, 2.5% Burn Tax)

3.2 Cycle and Functions

A protocol cycle is controlled by two distinct and rewarding functions (Vault
Management, Auto-Cash Out) that can be called by anyone once certain parameters
are met. An additional function promises recurring $CAKE rewards for $MONSTA
holders (Base Reward).

« Vault Management
e Automatic Cash Out
e Base Reward
Vault Management

If the temporary vault (collecting $MONSTA through tax) has grown bigger than
0.01% of the current total supply, the VAULT MANAGEMENT function becomes
available and can be called by anyone that is connected to the dashboard (Vault
progress is visible on the dashboard). This function triggers the following chain of
events, executed by the smart contract:

1. 10% of the $MONSTA balance is added to the Pancake Swap locked liquidity
pool (50% converted to BNB, 50% $MONSTA)

2. 90% of $MONSTA from the temporary vault is swapped for $CAKE, which is
then added to the $CAKE Gravity Vault (Smart Contract)

More details...

« A vault manager receives a minted reward of 1% of the total current
temporary vault value in $MONSTA.

« Vault manager queue size = 10 — To prevent spamming on this function,
each managing wallet address is added to a list of vault managers. Vault
managers on this list will be blocked from calling the VAULT MANAGEMENT
until they move out of that list because of following vault managers.

Example

e The current supply is 10 billion $MONSTA.

e The Temporary Vault is filled up with 1 million $MONSTA (0.01% of total
supply).

« The “Manage Vault” function becomes available on the dashboard.

« The connected user initiates the transaction to manage the vault.

« After a successful transaction, the user gets a minted reward of 10,000
$MONSTA (1% of the 1 million $MONSTA in the Temporary Vault).

e Locked liquidity is added to the LP, $CAKE is bought and added to the Gravity
Vault.

Base Reward

Each time the current total supply of $MONSTA has decreased by 1%, owners are
entitled to a base reward (or crumbs) of $CAKE from the Gravity Vault equal to their
current supply compared to the total supply:
e The total base reward is 25% of the Gravity Vault ($CAKE) aggregated since
the previous snapshot.

« Aholder should claim the rewards before the next snapshot takes place (after
an additional 1% supply is burned).

e Unclaimed rewards flow back into the Gravity Vault ($CAKE).

Example

e Auserholds 1% of the total supply (100 million $MONSTA at 10 billion supply)
when the Base Reward becomes available.

e Ifthe Gravity Vault has collected $1 million worth of $CAKE since the last 1%
deflation, a total of $250.000 (25%) worth of $CAKE will become claimable for
holders.

e Theuser holding 1% of the total supply (100 million $MONSTA) will be eligible
to receive 1% of the $250.000 worth of $CAKE from the Gravity Vault Base
Reward ($2,500)

Automatic Cash Out

If no >= 5% action (buy/transfer/sell) is recorded from a bearer wallet for 50
consecutive days, the AUTOMATIC CASH OUT function can be triggered by anyone.
This measure is essential to the hyper-deflationary logic of the protocol, and without
it the targeted end supply would never be reached.

e Swaps 95% of the holders $MONSTA tokens for BNB, which will be returned
to the holder.

e Transfers 5% of the holders $MONSTA tokens as reward to the caller of this
function.

e The swapped $MONSTA token will be burned out of the LP.

e If the holders $MONSTA token value is too low to sell, the function will just
burn the tokens (100%) out of the bearer wallet instead of selling it.

« Liquidity provided to the original BNB/MONSTA liquidity pool on Pancake
Swapv2 is whitelisted for this function and therefore cannot be disbursed.

Example

e Auser bought 5 million $MONSTA on June 19.

e 50 days later, that same user did not buy/sell/transfer a minimum of 5.01%
of their holdings. They are ‘inactive’ .

« Another user goes to the Cake Monster dashboard and cashes out this
inactive user.

e Since the user holds 5 million $MONSTA, the caller of the cash out function
will earn 5% of the users ‘holdings (250,000 $MONSTA)
e The inactive user will get the $BNB value for the rest of the holdings (95%).
This is done by selling their $MONSTA for $BNB.

e The sold 4.75 million $MONSTA (95%) residing in the LP will then be burned,
to reduce price impact and ensure general deflation.

4 Relaunch Process

The end of the protocol cycle is controlled by three different functions that can be
called by anyone. It basically rewards all holders with their share of the gravity vault,
relaunches the protocol and protects the ecosystem from monopolization or

 

 

implosion.
e Finish
e Claim Gravity Vault
e Relaunch
= Circulating Supply Value (Backed by Reserves) Supply Monopolization
100 +
75 +
50 +
25 +
0
Finish

 

If supply <= end supply (1,000,000) the CLAIM GRAVITY VAULT function becomes
available to anyone, and all trading will be halted.

10
e The collected liquidity from the LP will be removed and temporarily stored in
the smart contract.

e The FINISH function becomes also available when two years have passed
since protocol launch/relaunch.

e The FINISH function becomes also available when there is no vault
management activity for 124 days since protocol launch/relaunch.

Claiming Gravity Vault

For 35 days anyone can claim their share of $CAKE, equivalent to their $MONSTA
holdings versus total supply at the time of trading halt.

e Upon claiming all $MONSTA tokens in the bearer wallet will be swapped for
the $CAKE from the Gravity Vault and will be burned hereafter.

e Unclaimed $CAKE stays in the contract and will be used to support the
upcoming protocol cycle.

Example

e Minimum supply of 1 million $MONSTA is reached.

e The Gravity Vault is worth $100 million $CAKE.

e Auser owns 1% of the total supply (L0000 $MONSTA at 1 million supply)
e They are eligible for $1 million of $CAKE.

Relaunch

After 35 days claiming period the RELAUNCH function can be called by anyone to
kickstart a new cycle.

« Supply will be minted back to the initial of 10,000,000,000 (10B)

e Adds liquidity previously stored in the contract back to the LP to relaunch the
protocol.

« The holders of the previous cycle receive the shares back with which they
claimed their $CAKE.

e * IMPORTANT: Holders which have not claimed their reward will lose their
reward and will not get re-minted tokens relative to the initial supply.
Unclaimed $CAKE rewards will be used for the upcoming deflationary cycle.

11
5 Yield Generation

The yield is generated via the growth of the Gravity Vault (reserve asset: $CAKE) and
the total deflation happening within a calculated timeframe of one month, which is
then compounded over 12 months.

Formula

cakegrowthover30d% + monsterdeflationover30d% - protocol tax (0.15% over 30d)
= monthly growth (then compound over 12m) = APY

 

Code
const totalBurnedPct = 100 - (supplyLast / supplyFirst) * 100;
const reserveGrowthPct = (reserveBalanceASSETLast /

reserveBalanceASSETFirst) * 100 - 100;
let monthlyRate = (reserveGrowthPct + totalBurnedPct - 0.15) / 100;
let v= 1;
for (let i= 1; i <= 12; i++) {
v=v * (1 + monthlyRate);
}

setApyPct((v - 1) * 100);

Friction or Frictionless

The generated yield is frictionless for the most part, as holders do not have to stake
or farm for potential $CAKE rewards, and thus do not have to give up control of their
holdings or go through the hassle of a lot of interactions and transactions.

However, the $CAKE base rewards must be collected by holders on the Cake Monster
dashboard as they become claimable within a snapshot range determined by trading
volume and subsequent token deflation. As previously mentioned, this happens
every time the total supply decreased by 1% since the last base reward round.
Holders must also claim their gravity vault share once minimum supply is reached.

12
6 Long-Term Technical Strategy

The long-term technical strategy for Cake Monster proposed in this whitepaper
includes four key directions: Gamification & NFT Art, Infrastructure Changes, General
Expansion and Charity.

Gamification & NFT Art

We plan to develop sophisticated gameplay and art aspects for the project that will
help engage the community and add value through professional artwork designs and
an intertwined gameplay system for holders of the Cake Monster token. This would
include the development of collectible NFTs (83D and augmented reality) that can
have digital (dividends, bonds) and physical value.

Infrastructure Changes

Cake Monster was built to become a community project. And, as such, we plan to
build a DAO around Cake Monster and hand the project over to the community. We
will ensure that, from our perspective, everything necessary is in place by then so
that we can say with a clear conscience that the project is safe and sound.

We plan to build an intra-exchange (Monster Swap) to help the community swap
other reserve assets, native tokens or NFTs for benefits.

General Expansion

We plan to expand our reach to other promising blockchains (multi-chain) that
support a reserve asset in use of this project or another project we are developing or
partnering with. Cake Monster can easily be spread to more chains.

Charity

When Cake Monster is established, we plan to create Cake Monster For Good. An
initiative that sees Cake Monster committing to bespoke charity programs, decided
by the community, to combat mental health, inequality, abuse, poverty, and any
other endeavor the community decides.

13
7 Legal Disclaimer and Risk Caution

Participating in an IDO is a high-risk activity. This IDO is intended only for experienced
professionals who are familiar with blockchain technology, cryptocurrency trading and
trading in other marketing tools. By participating in this IDO, the Buyer is aware of and
accepts the risks related to security, possible failure to achieve technical and economic
results, and total or partial loss of its capital. Finally, the Buyer declares to be aware of
the legal uncertainty of this type of transaction and to have carried out its own legal
consultation in accordance with the applicable law to which it is subject. The Token
does not in fact grant any financial (income, capital, or dividend) or voting rights in the
project. The Token is a crypto asset issued by the Decentralized Autonomous Platform
(Project) through the IDO and used by Cake Monster team members and the
community. No other rights are transferred to the IDO. More specifically, the only
obligation of the Project is to distribute the Cake Monster token under the conditions
defined in the official publications.

Sales restriction

Due to national legislation, participants from the following countries are not allowed
to participate in the IDO: "U.S. person" (according to this definition), Canada, South
Korea, Burma, Ivory Coast, Cuba, Democratic Republic of Congo, Iran, Iraq, Liberia,
North Korea, Sudan, Syria and Zimbabwe, Singapore, and China. This prohibition
applies to all types of persons (moral, physical, agents, etc.) and to any indirect
participation (through an agent, registered loan, limited liability company, etc.). By
participating in the IDO, the buyer agrees to the legal disclaimer and to collectively
respect the above provisions.

Warnings

IDOs are high risk operations due to their experimental nature. By participating in this
operation, participants declare that they understand and assume the following risks:

e the lack of regulation: the buyer agrees not to take advantage of any guarantees
associated with IPOs in regulated financial markets or other regulated financial
investments.

e Capital loss: the buyer accepts the risk of full or partial capital loss in
cryptocurrency or in the token.

e Volatility or market risk: the value of Tokens, just like cryptocurrencies in general,
can be extremely volatile and subject to significant and largely unpredictable
fluctuations.

In addition, the market, or markets in which these tokens are traded do not offer
the same guarantees that generally apply to traditional financial markets.

14
