PolkaDoge
First NFT Multichain Marketplace
Whitepaper

POLKA+DOGE
Polkadoge is the first multichain NFT market with the aim to provide an
all-in-one marketplace for NFT.
Polkadoge is the only project to combine 4 chains NFT marketplace into
one with a growing goal of adding more chains.
We are striving to launch on Ethereum, Binance Smart Chain, xDAI and
Matic/Polygon.
Polkadoge is the only memecoin with a real use case on Ethereum.

1

QUADRILLION
total supply

WHAT ARE NFT?
A non-fungible token (NFT) is a data unit kept on a digital ledger known as a blockchain that
certifies a digital asset as unique and thus non-transferable.
Photos, films, audio, and other sorts of digital media can all be represented using NFTs. The buyer
of the NFT, on the other hand, has access to any duplicate of the original file.
While anyone can access copies of these digital objects, NFTs are tracked on blockchains to give
the owner with a proof of ownership that is distinct from copyright.
In 2020, the market value of NFTs will have tripled, reaching more than $250 million.
NFT sales surpassed $2 billion in the first quarter of 2021.

WHY NFTs ARE USEFUL?
The blockchain ledger can verify an NFT’s unique identification and ownership. Ownership of the
NFT is frequently associated with a licence to use the underlying digital asset, but this licence
does not generally confer copyright to the buyer: some agreements only grant a licence for
personal, non-commercial use, while others allow commercial use of the underlying digital asset.
Digital Art
Digital art was an early utilize case for NFTs, since of the capacity of blockchain innovation to
guarantee the interesting signature and possession of NFTs. The computerized artwork entitled
“Everydays – The Primary 5000 Days”, by craftsman Mike Winkelmann, moreover known as
Beeple, sold for US$69.3 million in 2021.The buy come about within the third-highest sell off
cost accomplished for a living craftsman, after Jeff Koons and David Hockney. Another Beeple
piece entitled “Crossroad”, comprising of a 10-second video appearing enlivened people on
foot strolling past a figure of Donald J. Trump, sold for US$6.6 million at Clever Door, a web
cryptocurrency commercial center for advanced art. A 3D-rendered show of a domestic named
“Defaces House”, made by craftsman Krista Kim was sold as a chunk of computerized genuine
domain on the NFT showcase for over US$500,000.
Collectibles
NFTs can represent computerized collectibles like physical card collections, be that as it may in a
totally computerized format. In February 2021, a LeBron James slam dunk NFT card on the NBA
Best Shot stage sold for $208,000.
Games
NFTs can too be utilized to represent in-game resources, such as computerized plots of land,
which are controlled by the client rather than the game designer. NFTs permit resources to be
exchanged on third-party marketplaces without consent from the game designer. In February
2021, Axie Infinity recorded a deal of $1.5 million for digital land titles in a single sale.
Music
Blockchain and the technology enabling the network have given the opportunity for musicians
to tokenize and publish their work as non-fungible tokens. This has extended the list of options
for musicians and artists alike to monetize and profit from their music as well as other content
surrounding the themes of the music and the artists public image. Additionally, NFTs have
provided the opportunity for artists and touring musicians to recuperate lost income due to the
2020 COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in music industry revenues falling nearly 85%.

NFTs were utilized by artists to increase revenue during the COVID-19 pandemic. In February
2021, NFTs reportedly generated around $25 million within the music industry (in an industry
with annual revenue of over $20 billion).On February 28, 2021, electronic dance musician
3LAU sold a collection of 33 NFTs for a total of $11.7 million to commemorate the three-year
anniversary of his Ultraviolet album. On March 3, 2021, rock band Kings of Leon became the first
to announce the release of a new album, When You See Yourself, in the form of an NFT which
generated a reported $2 million in sales. Other musicians that have used NFTs include American
rapper Lil Pump,artist Shepard Fairey and rapper Eminem.
Film
In May 2018, 20th Century Fox partnered with Atom Tickets and released limited-edition
Deadpool 2 digital posters to promote the film. They were available from Opensea.io and the GFT
exchange. In March 2021, Adam Benzine’s Oscar-nominated documentary Claude Lanzmann:
Spectres of the Shoah became the first motion picture, documentary and Academy Awardnominated film to be minted and auctioned as an NFT,via the Rarible platform.
Other projects in the film industry using NFTs include the announcement that an exclusive NFT
artwork collection will be released for Godzilla vs. Kong and director Kevin Smith announcing in
April 2021 that his forthcoming horror movie Killroy Was Here would be released as an NFT.
Sports
NFTs have also been used in sports, in September 2019, NBA player Spencer Dinwiddie
tokenized his contract so that others can invest into it. In addition, Dapper Labs, a blockchain
technology-based company, has collaborated with the NBA to create “N.B.A Top Shot”, a
marketplace for digital highlight clips.
Fashion
In 2019, Nike acquired a patent that allows for blockchain technology to attach cryptographically
secured digital assets in the form of NFTs to physical products, such as a pair of sneakers, under
the name “CryptoKicks”.

POPULAR NFTs PLATFORM

OpenSea (Ethereum - Matic)
OpenSea boldly describes itself as being the largest NFT marketplace. It offers a wide range of
non-fungible tokens, including art, censorship-resistant domain names, virtual worlds, trading
cards, sports, and collectibles. It includes ERC721 and ERC1155 assets. You can buy, sell, and
discover exclusive digital assets like Axies, ENS names, CryptoKitties, Decentraland, and more.
They feature over 700 different projects, including trading card games, collectible games to digital
art projects, and name systems like ENS (Ethereum Name Service).

Rarible (Ethereum)
Rarible is a community-owned NFT marketplace, with its “owners” holding the ERC-20 RARI
token. Rarible awards the RARI token to active users on the platform, who buy or sell on the NFT
marketplace. It distributes 75,000 RARI every week.

SuperRare (Ethereum)
SuperRare has a strong focus on being a marketplace for people to buy and sell unique, singleedition digital artworks. Each artwork is authentically created by an artist in the network
and tokenized as a crypto-collectible digital item that you can own and trade. They describe
themselves as being like Instagram meets Christie’s, offering a new way to interact with art,
culture, and collecting on the internet.

Foundation (Ethereum)
Foundation is a specialist platform designed to bring digital creators, crypto natives, and collectors
together to move culture forward. It calls itself the new creative economy. Its primary focus is on
digital art.

Atomic Market (Ethereum)
AtomicMarket is a shared liquidity NFT market smart contract that is used by multiple websites.
Shared liquidity means that everything listed on one market also shows on all other markets.

Myth Market (Ethereum)
Myth Market is a series of convenient online marketplaces supporting various digital trading card
brands. At the moment, its featured markets are GPK.Market

BakerySwap (Binance Smart Chain)
BakerySwap is an automated market maker (AMM) and decentralized exchange (DEX) on Binance
Smart Chain (BSC). It uses a native BakerySwap token (BAKE). BakerySwap is a multi-functional
crypto hub offering a range of decentralized finance (DeFi) services, as well as a crypto launchpad
and non-fungible token (NFT) supermarket.

KnownOrigin (Ethereum)
KnownOrigin is a market where you can discover and collect rare digital artwork. Every digital
artwork on KnownOrigin is authentic and truly unique. Creators can use the platform to showcase
and sell their work to collectors who care about authenticity. It is secured by the Ethereum
blockchain.

Enjin Marketplace (Ethereum)
Enjin Marketplace is a mechanism by which you can explore and trade blockchain assets. It is the
official marketplace for Enjin based NFTs. To date, it has enabled $43.8 million of Enjin Coin to be
spent on digital assets, involving 2.1 billion NFTs. 832.7K items have been traded. You can use the
Enjin Wallet to easily list and purchase gaming items and collectibles.

Portion (Ethereum)
Portion is an online marketplace connecting artists and collectors through Blockchain technology
to easily sell, invest and own art and collectibles with complete transparency. It includes the Artist
Community, a global network of decentralized artists and creators.

WHAT ARE xDAI AND MATIC/POLYGON?
xDAI
The xDai chain is a stable payments EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) blockchain designed for fast
and inexpensive transactions. The chain uses a unique dual-token model; xDai is a stable token
used for transactions, payments, and fees, and STAKE is a governance token used to support the
underlying POSDAO Proof-of-Stake consensus.
MATIC/POLYGON
Polygon combines the best of Ethereum and sovereign blockchains into a full-fledged multi-chain
system.
Polygon solves pain points associated with Blockchains, like high gas fees and slow speeds,
without sacrificing on security. This multi-chain system is akin to other ones such as Polkadot,
Cosmos, Avalanche etc, but with major upsides.

