Tey WL Le

ECOSYSTEM

Fn

WOOF PAPER
(WHITE PAPER)

 

 

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
INTRODUCTION

Our journey was the answer to a simple question.
What would happen if a cryptocurrency project was 100% run by its community?

While the term DeFi literally includes the word decentralized, this is in reference to
economic status as opposed to its internal hierarchy. Our founder, Ryoshi, said this of
our beginnings, “We are an experiment in decentralized spontaneous community
building¢...)”

While none of us could have imagined it at the time, this was a concept that would start
a revolution.

Projects built on the foundation of community involvement are the untamed wilderness
of our future. As we move further away from rigid financial structures and traditional
mindsets, we become free to discover new ways to solve problems and relate to one
another.

In a world ruled by the commodification of time, community-run projects are more than
just a change of pace, they are a way to practice the radical acceptance of others.

When success depends on the shared strength of the individuals who make up a
collective, we are forced to shift our perspectives to align with those around us. The
Shiba Inu Ecosystem is our way of recognizing the importance of tearing down this
long-established paradigm.

A community is held together by hundreds, if not thousands, of interconnected
moments. By studying those drawn fo our project, we realized that true strength doesn’t

come from one of us alone, it comes from when we work together in harmony.

With that thought bright in our minds, we began developing the Shiba Inu Ecosystem in
Te

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
WHY
DECENTRALIZATION?

We are standing at a pivotal moment in innovation.

Until now, centralization has been a prerequisite for all of our official structures.
Political, educational, and financial systems are, and have always been, crafted in
a way that does not equally and ethically distribute power to those functioning
within them. There have been times in our history where this sort of internal
structure played an important role, but in an age with the information of the world
available at the click of a button, it’s time to rethink.

2021 opened our eyes to how little control the average person has in the face of
these overarching, generational structures when GameStop and AMC stock value
exploded seemingly overnight. WallStreetBets tested the waters of what it would
look like to disperse control to consumers and inexperienced investors alike.

It was inspiring, but it didn’t last long. Just when the movement seemed to be on
the brink of success, it was throttled by the bureaucracy of our centralized society.
However, not before this concept of a new power among the people took root.

Months before any of these events made international news, Ryoshi was already
setting his 100% community-based, cryptocurrency experiment into motion.

Cryptocurrency itself comes from the idea of redefining wealth and how it can be
acquired, which goes against traditional processes by its very nature. And yet,
most, if not all, cryptocurrencies function within enforceable rules. It’s easy to see
when we look back at cases like the SEC’s win over the Kin Ecosystem (a
centralized authority), or when we consider how the Binance Smart Chain seems to
use centralized authority to offer “benefits” over their decentralized partnerships.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
In the ever-shifting economic landscape, cryptocurrencies which do not take their
independence into their own hands struggle with a tenuous existence.

When the rules of the game are changed against their favor, they have no option
but to comply; regardless of the consequences.

OUR BACKGROUND

“You can only fight the way you practice”

Se Neer ee RTT
Ryoshi approached the creation of our community from a unique perspective.

“We believe through the power of collective decentralization we can build
something stronger than a centralized team ever could create.

A community-run token is nothing without the united individuals who give it
purpose.”

From the early days of Shiba, we became known as the Shib Army, both amongst
ourselves and across the countless other platforms. This wasn’t just a name. For
many it became part of their username, their handle, and their avatars/profile
pictures which they switched to our adorable Shiba sporting a beret.

Whether you are a new recruit or part of the old guard, if you fly under the Shib
banner, you must embrace our founding principles:

1. We started from zero, with zero. It’s the spirit of our project to create something
out of nothing.

2. We were not founded from an existing community, let alone a preassembled
team. The brilliant minds behind Shib had never collaborated before. They were a
fresh team of developers, designers, moderators, marketers, and shillers. When
you joined the Shib army, from anywhere in the world, you found where your
talents could be used best, and got to work.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
3. We love Shiba Inu Dogs.

We are proud of where the Shib Army originated and equally excited for our
future. Our founder, Ryoshi, chose to start Shib from nothing, and gave the
direction of the currency to our army (which rapidly grew to be over 120,000+
members strong).

Starting with nothing means everyone has to bring something to the table.
The holders and believers in our Shib Army have been the source of all our success.

You and more than 120,000 fellow holders, admins, mods, leaders of international
chat rooms, social media influencers, meme makers, shillers, and most of all,

friends.

THANK YOU. You are the real SHIBARMY, and we salute you.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
WHY ETH

“To know ten thousand things, know one well”

- Miyamoto Musashi

When comparing different blockchains, you might wonder why we chose to stay on
the ETH network. The answer, like the rest of our project, is straightforward and
purposeful.

Our founder, Ryoshi, embarked on the Shib journey with a predisposition towards
aa Mimi Mice oe ee) s-(e Al elated eter meh ar-TiCel
us to stay decentralized (unlike some of the “fad” networks).

His top priority was to ensure that his project was free to change and evolve with
zero outside regulations impacting it, and ETH was the way to achieve that goal.
Our army is able to hold their own tokens in a wallet and collect payments from
around the world, all while remaining independent of moderating forces.

Our founder also chose to send 50% of the total supply to Vitalik Buterin’s wallet
because, in his words, “We sent over 50% of the TOTAL supply to Vitalik. There is
no greatness without a vulnerable point and as long as VB doesn’t rug us, then
SHIBA will grow and survive.”

These aspects of ETH are what made it the perfect foundation for ShibaSwap, a
truly decentralized exchange where you can trade, buy, sell, and HODL to gain
rewards which far outstripe the value or other staking platforms.

As ETH v.2 gets closer every day, bringing faster and cheaper transactions with it,

ShibaSwap is poised to become the most popular and highest volume exchange
with a laser focus on Erc-20 tokens and the Ethereum blockchain.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
SHIBA RESCUE
WITH AMAZON SMILE

Shiba Inus are incredible dogs.

From the tips of their little teddy-bear noses to the ends of their curled tails, they
are fiercely intelligent, brave, and independent, with an equal propensity for
OE AAT Meu Lm

Sadly, the characteristics which make them extraordinary are the same ones which
can make them a challenging pet. New or inexperienced owners can quickly find
themselves overwhelmed and unprepared for life with a breed that’s known for its
bold (i.e. stubborn) personality.

That’s where we come in. ShibaToken is more than just passionate about our
mascot. Our community is actively searching for opportunities to help these dogs
in the real world.

That’s why we’re showing our support by using Amazon Smile to seamlessly
collect and distribute a percentage of your Amazon purchases to the Shiba Inu
Rescue Association as donations.

Joining our cause is easy and it’s free!

Simply use smile.amazon.com when placing orders and select Shiba Inu Rescue
Association (which is a 501(c)3, as the preferred non-profit organization) to start
making a difference.

You’re only a few clicks away from helping Shibs in need. Start funding shelters
today.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
THE VISION OF
Sa

We are dedicated to building the best Decentralized Ecosystem (DECO) on the
planet. Our three tokens were the seeds from which the Shiba Inu Ecosystem
yee MERU] oem mu male MUM lm Kerem

The goal of ShibaSwap is to provide a safe place to trade your valuable crypto
while remaining decentralized. We are loyal to our holders, and that gives us the
means to grow exponentially. We will constantly scale this Ecosystem so it may
bring ever increasing interested parties to the ShibaSwap platform.

Our unique tokenomics, solid design, technical implementation, and the viral
eee atic me ame (elere Merman Ue ee Lieu eee erate Ti
and ultimately provide residual benefits to the Ecosystem.

Making a swap without a budget is a unique challenge but by tackling various
genres and product lines, a focused development team rose from the ranks of our
community.

We know that with our unified force, and the power of Shiba, we will be successful
in advancing the Swap and Ecosystem as a whole, so that we reach new and

spectacular heights together.

The best is yet to come!

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
THE STARTING
TOKENOMICS OF
Ta Ne

You must understand that there is more than one path fo the top of the mountain”

SNe LE Ci]

Shiba Inu Token and the Shib Army have evolved beyond a simple experiment. As
of the publishing of this document and the release of ShibaSwap, we have become
a Decentralized Ecosystem enriched by its own DEX.

This redefines SSHIB as more than it could ever be by itself, and is why Shiba Inu
Tel esau me imme iCute y-a moe cme Teme Toni

ShibaSwap will highlight our three flagship tokens:

Shiba Inu: SSHIB
Leash Dogecoin Killer: SLEASH
Bone: SBONE

On ShibaSwap your Shibs will DIG for BONES, or even BURY their tokens.
The best trainers even teach their Shibas to SWAP which allows the pup to
exchange one token for another token.

When Shibas DIG, BURY or SWAP, they generate “Returns” that are distributed to
the Puppy Pools where #SHIBARMY has either BURIED their tokens or are
DIGGING for BONES.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
When you BURY (Stake) tokens:

SHIB LEASH ste) 13

lal |=) a) 11-10] |=

The ShibaSwap Liquidity Pars (SSLP) are:

SHIB LEASH 310) 13

Shib-Eth SSLP Leash-Eth SSLP Bone-Eth SSLP

These pools will then distribute rewards proportionally to holders of the
aforementioned token pools.

While the staked tokens receive a fixed percentage of BONE, the SSLP pools
are distributed as BPB (BONE per block) based on the allocation points to
each individual Puppy Pools.

Furthermore, certain Puppy Pools are eligible for DOUBLE or even TRIPLE
ate day

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
SHIBA ECOSYSTEM
TOKENOMICS

“It is difficult to understand the universe if you only study one planet.”
- Miyamoto Musashi

TS EW

SHIB came into this world as a puppy in August of 2020.

After we finished minting 1 quadrillion tokens, we put half into Uniswap and threw
away the keys. Then, the remaining 50% was “burned” to Vitalik Buterin’s wallet*,
Um CRUE la meme Uh A

Shib was ground zero for so many of the popular projects today.

We were the first to allow diamond hands fo hold billions, or even trillions, of our
tokens in their wallets, as well as being the first spontaneous community building
experiment in a decentralized setting.

We earned the nickname DOGECOIN KILLER because we have the ability to
outpace the value of Dogecoin, exponentially, without ever crossing the $0.01
hire

We are the dog that boldly went where no dog had gone before. At the time of this
writing, we are recognized around the world, potentially even by Elon Musk, and
are already up thousands of percentage points. Many have tried to follow our
wagging tail, but the form and function of our project eclipses their hype.

Now, Shib is the first cryptocurrency token to be listed and incentivised on
ShibaSwap, our very own decentralized exchange, immortalizing it in history
forever.

“Please note that the Shib in VB’s wallet, at the time of this writing, was his #1

HIGHEST valued token, even exceeding the value of the Ethereum there.
This is an incredible accomplishment, and we are just getting started.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
SHIB STATS AS OF 4/29/21

124,250 Holders
Increase

SHIB Incentives: DOUBLE Returns

BURY (stake) your Shiba Inu Tokens for BONE returns!

3% of all BONE per block (BPB) is distributed to the pool of xSHIB (which is the
staked version of SHIB). xSHIB is powerful because its pool includes the 3% BONE
per Block (BPB) BONE Reward Allocation, but it ALSO pools 0.3% of ALL ETH

Swap transaction fees which occur on ShibaSwap.

We call this a double return puppy pool.

DIG for BONES (Farm) by bringing your SHIB-ETH UNI-V2 tokens or PROVIDE
SHIBA LP for SHIB-ETH SSLP (ShibaSwap LP Tokens) to share in the SHIBA SSLP

 

Puppy Pool.

Eligible ShibaSwap
Transactions

3% BONE
Minted per block
ao

0.3% All Ethereum
Transaction Fees

8 BURY all)

Pool
SHIB

Re
33% Available
66% Locked 6 months

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper

You get xSHIB
(Share of the Pool)

WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
Eligible ShibaSwap
Bie Vie ey

Bones Minted per Block

BRST
E DIG leet Te
SHIB we nea Mohan LAL -w cere) D)
RS
33% Available
66% Locked 6 months
SLEASH DOGECOIN KILLER

SLEASH is the second token in the Shiba Inu Ecosystem. It was originally
envisioned to be a rebase token tied to the price of DogeCoin. Later, it was decided
itm UR Mme mu ecm RG Cy AMET mer Rew laa
to ensure this) and continue as a simple ERC-20 Token.

Though simple, the fact that LEASH's tokenomics are the polar opposite of SHIB
make it even more intriguing.

SHIB was made to have an enormous supply (1 quadrillion tokens) with half locked
away, whereas the supply of Leash is only 107,647 minted tokens.

 

The low supply of tokens minted, and the demand and reward for holding xLEASH
and LEASH-ETH SSLP, has led to a meteoric rise, similar to that of SHIB. It's quite
possible, it is just getting started.

STATS AS OF 4/29/21

5,137 Holders
Increase

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
SLEASH INCENTIVES

When STAKED, it generates xLEASH.
xLEASH holders are part of the xLEASH POOL and will gain 0.5% of all BONE Per
=i fete d=) ed 2

Eligible ShibaSwap
Betti

0.5% BONE
ii Mller 4

 

xLEASH No (1d Phd a
Edt Pool (Share of the Pool)
Te
33% Available
66% Locked 6 months

Moreover, to encourage LEASH Liquidity, the LEASH SSLP TOKEN Puppy Pool
gathers 0.3% of all WBTC swap transactions and 0.3% of all USDC swap
transactions.

In this case, LEASH SSLP TOKEN Puppy Pool triples staking returns.

Eligible ShibaSwap
Br eta)

2D eet meio. 4
+
0.3% WBTC
Py
0.3% USDC
from all Swap transactions

 

elie (o
DIG aa ep eee
(Share of the Pool)
Sune
33% Available
66% Locked 6 months

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
SBONE

BONE is extra special. Only available on ShibaSwap, BONE has 250,000,000
ee) CMe ie Mme (ee CMM aaah Ue eC mao Ce CCE
regards to circulation supply.

Moreover, the token is a Governance token which will allow the #ShibArmy to vote
on proposals for 2022, as well as which token pairs will be added on ShibaSwap.
The more BONE you hold, the more weight your vote carries in these future
endeavors.

SBONE INCENTIVES

Get tBONE when you BURY BONE Tokens. tBone entitles the holder part of a pool
that gains 1% of all BONE Per Block (BPB).

Eligible ShibaSwap
Transactions

1% BONE
Minted per block

O xBONE You get tBONE
ef Pool (Sh ]
are of the Pool)
BONE
Rey
33% Available
66% Locked 6 months

Similar to LEASH, BONE liquidity is encouraged on ShibaSwap by offering the
BONE SSLP TOKEN. The BONE SSLP TOKEN pool gathers 0.3% of all DAl Swap
returns and 0.3% of all USDT Swap returns. Finally, the BONE SSLP TOKEN
Puppy Pool has the highest allocation points during our Liquidity Event as it has
bu me

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
Eligible ShibaSwap
Transactions

Bones Minted per Block
ao

leo ya.)
a

0.3% USDT
Pee Se) mire eli cy

oe You get
DIG as sgl Bone-Eth SSLP
BONE (Share of the Pool)
Re
33% Available
66% Locked 6 months

NOTE: Swap transactions are specifically for the token Swap function.

Ta Ne
Brel lea aa

To get ShibaSwap off on the right paw, we are having a two week Liquidity Event.
During these two weeks you can bring your liquidity for selected pairs from
Uniswap or Sushiswap fo receive part of the BONE RETURNS.

BONE will mint at 10x the normal rate only during this two week event.

If you have liquidity parked on another exchange, bring it to ShibaSwap for 1,000
BONE per block (900 after the BONE Development & Reward Allocation) during
the Liquidity Event.

After the Liquidity Event, the block rewards will be reduced.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
The following list showcases the tokens available for deposit during the
ShibaSwap Liquidity Event with the associated allocation pairing amount.

GLOSSARY

UNI-V2 = UniSwap LP tokens
SUSHI SLP = SushiSwap LP Tokens
AP = Allocation Pair

Puppy Pools Swap LP Pools
BONE-ETH (ShibaSwap Exclusive) - 1500 AP SUSHI-ETH; 300 AP (SLP)
aS Sa CO) oa oe) ew Lele od UNI-ETH; 300 AP CUNI-V2 LP)

BS a ey a ee) ead

Big Dog LP Pools Newborn Pup Pools

ETH-WBTC (SLP Tokens) - 300 AP XFUND-ETH (UNI-V2 LP) - 50 AP
ETH-WBTC (UNI-V2 LP) - 300 AP SNX-ETHCUNI-V2 LP) - 50 AP
ETH-USDC (SLP) - 300 AP MEME-ETH (UNI-V2 LP) - 50 AP
ETH-USDC CUNI-V2 LP) - 300 AP GRT-ETHCUNI-V2 LP) - 50 AP

ELON-ETHCUNI-V2 LP) - 50 AP
Young Pup Pools
LINK-ETH (UNI-V2 LP) - 100 AP
LINK-ETH (SLP) - 100 AP
DAI-ETH (UNI-V2 LP) - 100 AP
DAI-ETH (SLP) - 100 AP

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
pe aaa

We believe being part of ShibaArmy should come with benefits.
Benefits YOU receive.

For this reason, we do not allow wallets from exchanges to receive ANY returns
from ShibaSwap.

This Black List style feature is exclusive to ShibaSwap because several of the top
SERVE oe eee ui ee ce

This GrrrList feature will ensure that holders on exchanges who want to access
ShibaSwap returns won't have to worry that the exchange might try to stake with

their tokens and then freeze withdrawals.

We've already seen suspicious freezing taking place in Centralized Exchanges. So
this secret feature being coded into our swap weeks ago seemed fo be a good idea.

Your wallet. Your returns. And to the CEXs... GRRRRR!

THE FUTURE
OF SHIBASWAP

FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

To assure the longevity of ShibSwap and the Shiba Inu Ecosystem, 5% of all BONE
per Block (BPB) will be allocated to a multi-signature activated Dev wallet.
This wallet will then be split in half.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
50% (6,250,000 BONE) DOG AM (Developer OG Admin & Marketing) Fund

 

This fund will be put towards the financial relief that our Developers, Admins, and
Marketing team need to make our Ecosystem their full-time focus. We want these
talented individuals to continue building on the solid foundation they gifted to us
with their own time, money, and energy.

- Developers: 4,000,000 BONE

This allocation will allow each of the volunteer developers to be both compensated
for their initial investment into ShibaSwap, and also offer salaries so they can work
exclusively in the EcoSystem for years to come.

- OG Admins: 1,250,000 BONE

The OGs are the veterans of the Shib Army, and they have all earned medals in
Fighting Daily FUD and Fending Off Bot Takeovers. This fund allows the Dev team
to have a trusted group of admins, deployed across multiple channels, to secure a
safe space where Shiba fans build community without being bothered by FUD,
scams, and other issues.

- Marketing: 1,000,000 BONE

The Shiba Inu Ecosystem is even more impressive when you consider that, so far,
the entire effort has succeeded without spending a dollar on marketing.
However, this BONE PILE will allow the team to deploy international marketing
strategies, such as commercials, that will make SHIB the freshest mainstream
cryptocurrency name, sharing the ranks with Bitcoin and Ethereum.

50% (6,250,000 BONE) Shiba Inu Ecosystem Development Fund

 

This fund will be put towards the continued advancement of our Shiba Inu
Ecosystem. Soon after ShibaSwap has launched, it is up to us to keep that
momentum going. This allocation will give us the rocket fuel we need to send this
rely oye\ Com Mules e-laemel-\ elute

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
This funding will also allow us to quickly expand on concepts from the top secret
2021 RuffMap with a real budget. Upon the completion of RuffMap items, we will
utilize the remaining funds to complete the projects confirmed by the Community
Governance votes for 2022 and 2023.

RUFFMAP

Our roadmap will remain top secret to ensure our continued advantage in this
highly competitive space, but releasing a basic overview will allow our holders to
understand the intentions of the core development team.

We will standardize Shiba Inu products and integrate them into the global
marketplace for long term success.

This will look like launching our Artist Incubator and upcoming NFT project,
releasing ShibaSwag, and even potentially actualizing real-world applications that
move us beyond the digital landscape.

ns

Though our official roadmap remains tightly guarded, we are happy to reveal our
next token will be a Shiba Treat.

TREAT is another very special token, but the detailed Tokenomics will be revealed
after the Liquidity Event with an update to this document.

NEW TOKEN PAIRS

After the Shiba Inu Liquidity Event, we will spend the next few months adding new
token pairs into ShibaSwap. It is our goal to onboard 500+ pairs over the course of
2021, alone. Paired with our Doggy DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization
& BONE Governance Token) we will have created a true decentralized ecosystem.

DOGGY DAO

Our Governance system will be introduced by the team later this year.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
CONCLUSION

The Shiba community started with the seed of an idea. What could happen with no
centralized team, no funding, and no direct leadership? Could decentralization
actually work? Could we follow the perfect storm of digital currencies, like BTC or
DOGE, except perpetuate something that is fully community-driven, instead?

Now, while | do stay around and make it my mission to “defend the brand” and
protect the community from leeches and scammers, the volunteer team has done
amazing work and built the future of memecoin finance through ShibaSwap.

This is the beginning of a new era for decentralized communities. When the time is
right (because good things can't be rushed), ShibaSwap will be the crucial point of
contact between the decentralized world and global communities, allowing us to
actualize our vision of widespread adoption of DeFi cryptocurrency.

Again, we would like to say thank you to each and every one of you. Without your
participation, none of this would be possible.

It's time for us to begin.

Seat a1]

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
WOOF Paper
(White Paper)

v1

This is a living document and information is up to date at the time of publishing. Please note
information herein does not constitute investment advice, financial advice, trading advice, or any other
sort of advice and you should not treat any of the content as such.

The SHIBA INU team suggests you conduct your own due diligence and consult your financial advisor
before making any investment decisions. By purchasing any Shiba Inu product, you agree that you are
not purchasing a security or investment and you agree to hold the feam harmless and not liable for any
losses or taxes you may incur. You also agree that the team is presenting the products ‘as is" and is not
required to provide any support or services. You should have no expectation of any form from the Shiba
Inu Ecosystem and its team. Although Shiba Inu is a community driven DeFi Ecosysten and not a
registered digital currency, the team strongly recommends that citizens in areas with government bans
on Crypto do not purchase it because the team cannot ensure compliance with your territories
regulations, Always make sure that you are in compliance with your local laws and regulations before
you make any purchase.

v1 - 4/29/21 - WOOF Paper WWW.SHIBATOKEN.COM
