SHIH TZU
WHITE PAPER
2021/ 05

Powered By
Ethereum

II.

Disclaimer

The information shared in this whitepaper is not widely inclusive
or extensive and doesn't in any capacity place the development
team into a legally binding relationship to guarantee the stated
outcomes. The essential role of this whitepaper is to give
prospective investors relevant data concisely to empower them to
perform their due diligence to make an educated investment
decision. Before you decide to invest in the Shih TZU coin, we
urge you to read this whitepaper thoroughly. Specific assertions,
metrics, and financial data presented in this whitepaper are based
on and considered while relying on particular known and unknown
data and risks. The prospective investor must understand that
varying market conditions may create the expected outcomes. It
may differ significantly and substantially from forecasts predicted
or results extrapolated or communicated in the explanations
provided in this paper.

Table Of Contents
01 ABSTRACT
02 INTRODUCTION
03 VALUES
04 ECOSYSTEM
05 TOKENOMICS
06 ROADMAP

01

Abstract

Cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology continue to
attract many investors, entrepreneurs, politicians, regulators,
and the general public to the advantage of the cryptocurrency
ecosystem.
Shih-Tzu Coin was created with the sole purpose of serving
the world. Unlike the Meme coin, "Dogecoin," we seek to go
beyond being just a Meme trend and create an impact on the
life and care of "the man's best friend" using the blockchain
ecosystem.
Shih-Tzu came to life with a revolutionary vision to flip the
crypto-sphere with the indispensable goal of bringing not just
an actual value of being the first Meme coin but curating Meme
+ NFT projects interchangeably. It is a Meme dog coin, but in
the "wallet of holders," a different narrative is planted.
$SHIH shares one of the most exciting action plans: the
NFT collaboration of animal lovers and artists utilizing a swap
product.
Shih-Tzu will be launched with NO pre-sale nor private
seeds. No team tokens have been distributed, and all team
members can only purchase $SHIH at an open market. At the
fair launch is concerned, within a week, $SHIH will be
proliferating in popularity among a diverse set of community
members working together to make $SHIH into the next gamechanging Meme coin.

02

Introduction

Here are some facts about stray animals that live on America's
streets:
There are over 70 million stray animals living in the U.S.
Of this number, only about six to eight million pet animals,
that is cats and dogs enter the nation’s roughly 3,500 shelters
each year, as estimated by the Humane Society of the United
States.
SHIH TZU project is a meme-coin-based project that utilizes
NFT artwork to promote animal lovers, artists, and advocates
of animal rights, including those supporting animal shelters
and disabled animal shelters.
The SHIH coin is an NFT artwork project framed to influence
and spread awareness using NFT (ETH-based blockchain) to
influence animal advocates and artists to collaborate.
Collaboration between the two parties on NFT tokens will
create a sustained impact on improving animals' lives and
allowing animal lovers to create a better life for animals.

" WE A R E THE NEXT NEXT GENERATION O F
ANIM A L LOVERS NF T COLLECTIBLES! T H O S E
WHO C A R ED FOR AN IMAL WITH DISABIL I T Y A N D
ANIM A L SHELTERS! "
Whether you are an artist, a buyer, an NFT developer, or a collector,
you have come to the right place, for we are all here to play our role for
the common values we share as ANIMAL LOVERS!.
SHIH coin is like a cryptocurrency trend like YIELD FARMING OR
DEFI. This satire serves no purpose, like bitcoin, which started with
Dogecoin, a trending meme that caught the eye of every potential
trader and investor.

03

Values

TRANSPERANCY
We keep our investors informed through open and honest communication, with
updates on SHIH-TZU

TRUST
Your trust is very important to us. So, we provide our investors with
transparency and security related to their funds.

COMMUNITY
SHIH is an experiment in the community-driven decentralized token. We
believe there should be No founders or team tokens. This group's purpose is
to allocate desired skills within the community, to appoint those with the
appropriate skills for roles in Shih Tzu development, and to collectively agree
on decisions for SHIH coin's future.

LONGEVITY
With SHIH-TZU community, we plan for the long-term development of an
ecosystem that results in a fruitful investment beyond any temporary trends.

04

Ecosystem

SHIH TZU is an experiment in spontaneous decentralized
community building. SHIH token is one of the first tokens
that allow users to hold Billions or even trillions. Nicknamed
the SHIBA Inu KILLER, this ERC-20 ONLY token can remain
well under a penny and still outpace Dogecoin and SHIB in a
short time (relatively speaking).
We plan on having the 50% of the total supply of tokens
locked into Uniswap. The remaining 50% will be burned to
Vitalik Buterin. We are one of the first projects following this
path to force everyone to buy the SHIH token on the open
market. Forcing everyone to purchase their token on the open
market will ensure a fair and complete distribution where
developers don't own team tokens that they can later dump
on the community, diluting and devaluing everyone's
investment.

05

TOKENOMICS

Total Supply
1,000,000,000,000,000 SHIH

50% of Total Supply
Vitalek Buterin's Wallet
50%of supplies were sent to Vitalek Buterin's wallet
that equal to burn

50% of Supply
Locked in Uniswap Pool
We locked 50% of total supplies in Uniswap Pool

06

RoadMap

Phase 1 - Launch
Invite 1,000 investors to Hold the Token
Website Launch
Invite 2,000 Telegram Members to Invest and Hold the Token
Create Community Marketing Fund
Begin Marketing Campaign
Invite another 1,000 investors to Hold the Token
Apply to Ehterscan and wait for a few days to add the logo and the
project details.
Apply to CMC and CoinGecko: Work on building functional website
and app to enhance the above applications
Hir top UI designer for website redesigning
Initiate Youtube and Tiktok Marketing Plans

Phase 2 - Growth
Invite 5,000 Telegram Members to Invest and Hold the Token
Initiate SHIH Swap for upcoming product to add 5,000 Holders
Create Influencer Marketing Partnerships

Phase 3 - Expansion
CEX Listing for cheaper network fees, Invite 15,000 Telegram
Members to Invest

